
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 The School of European Languages & Culture (SELCS)
comprises the Departments of Dutch, French, German, Italian, Scandinavian Studies and Spanish & Latin
American Studies. For the full
range of Programmes offered by each department, and more information on 
what each Programme offers, please visit the departments using the links below.UCL houses the largest centre for Dutch Studies in the English-speaking world. Find out more about our Programmes of study and Research.The department is at the cutting edge of current debate in French literature, culture, politics and film and is consistently ranked among the best in the world.The department is an interdisciplinary centre of excellence, offering the study of language and linguistics, literature, history, politics, theory and film.One of the biggest Italian departments in the UK, UCL Italian leads on all periods of Italian literature, from Dante to the present day.The department teaches the language, literature, history, linguistics and visual culture of Denmark, the Faroe Islands, Iceland, Norway and Sweden.Established in 1828 by Antonio Alcalá Galiano, the Department was one of the first in the UK and remains today a centre of academic excellence.With its exceptional range of modern and ancient languages and cultures, UCL provides a comprehensive environment for comparative literary study.This distinctive and highly flexible programme provides enormous scope for you to customise your degree according to your interest in languages, linguistics, film, literature and history.SELCS staff also provide the teaching within the following centres:Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    Dutch
				    SELCS
				Amsterdam 17thC houses, photo: UTUCL houses the largest centre for Dutch Studies in the English-speaking world. Founded in 1919, the department was the first of its kind in the UK. Today UCL Dutch, part of the UCL School of European Languages, Culture & Society, offers a full range of undergraduate and graduate programmes and is an acknowledged centre of excellence in both teaching and research in the field of Dutch and Flemish language and culture.  
				    Dutch
				    SELCS
				London   UCL
 houses the oldest centre for Dutch Studies in the English-speaking 
world. The Department of Dutch was the first of its kind in the United 
Kingdom. It was here that Dutch first attained the status of a serious 
academic discipline and a chair in Dutch has been occupied almost 
continuously since 1919.Today it offers a full range of undergraduate and graduate
 degree programmes and, as part of the UCL School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS), provides a uniquely supportive environment for 
those studying Dutch language, literature, history and society from the 
early modern period to today. In addition to the department's own staff,
 visiting lecturers and professors from the Netherlands and Flanders 
together with visiting students from Dutch and Flemish universities 
ensure regular contact between the department and the Dutch-speaking 
countries.The department's research interests are varied, broadly 
encompassing:   The range of expertise is reflected in the courses on offer to both undergraduate and graduate students.  Various
 other UCL departments, including History, History of Art and Geography,
 have academic staff with highly specialised expertise covering the Low 
Countries (i.e. both the Netherlands and Flanders, the Dutch-speaking 
part of Belgium) and parts of the world in which Dutch used to, or continues to, play a role, including the Dutch Caribbean, South-East Asia and parts of Africa and the Americas.   The Dutch Department organises a range of cultural events,
 often in association with other centres and institutions. It plays a 
prominent part in various national and international organisations 
concerned with Dutch Studies and has excellent contacts with universities in the Netherlands, Belgium and further afield.   The department is also fortunate in being able to host an annual Dutch Writer in Residence
 programme. This involves a Dutch or Flemish writer, whose work has been
 translated into English, being in residence in the department for part 
of the year. The department is also the editorial 
base for the long-standing and award-winning international research 
journal on interdisciplinary Low Countries Studies, Dutch Crossing: Journal of Low Countries Studies.
				    Dutch
				    SELCS
				   As we move towards a global future, foreign languages and
intercultural communicative skills become increasingly important. Dutch
is the modern language closest to English and thus the most accessible
language to learn. Nevertheless, graduates with a good command of Dutch
are still rare, thus learning Dutch opens up unique career
opportunities across Europe and beyond.
				    Dutch
				    SELCS
				Third Floor, Foster Court, Malet Place, off Torrington Place, London, WC1E 6BT(Bloomsbury Campus - see UCL maps)
				    Dutch
				    SELCS
				 This unique collection, housed in a separate section of the
 UCL Library, is the main library resource for students of Dutch. The 
holdings consist of some 12,000 volumes on the language, literature, 
history and culture of the Low Countries, supplemented by a large 
collection of periodicals. Most of the books are directly accessible on 
open shelves. The range of topics and periods covered is extensive and 
provides plenty of scope for independent study. Of the many electronic databases and bibliographical indexes 
held by the library, the following are of particular interest for Dutch: Please note: most of these resources as well as most 
electronic journals subscribed by the library can only be accessed from 
within the UCL network or require an Athens username and password. Just around the corner from UCL, the extensive collections of the following libraries are available to UCL students:  See also our list of London Resources for Low Countries Studies.
				    Dutch
				    SELCS
				Speaking a number of different languages gives you the intercultural skills you need in today’s global world. Studying an alternative language, like Dutch, means you can learn a new language from scratch and get an insight into a culture not many people know much about. This means you will not only stand out on the job market, but you will also have something really valuable to offer when you graduate.   Terry EzraBA DutchGraduated: 2007Cultural entrepreneur, translator,MA student Arts Administration & Cultural Policy 
  UCL was the only place in the UK where I could pursue a university 
degree entirely dedicated to the language and culture of the Netherlands
 and Flanders.
  The breadth of approaches to understanding the Netherlands and 
(Flemish) Belgium – which was also one of the most challenging aspects.  Staff are friendly and approachable.
  It was always my intention to emigrate to the Netherlands and I 
wouldn't have had the courage to do that without the foundation that 
this degree gave me. In many respects I know more about the Netherlands 
than a lot of Dutch people. The course also enabled me to reflect on 
many aspects of British culture which I hadn't done before and I am now 
engaged with social and political questions which I could not have 
foreseen. On a more mundane level, the fact that you have studied Dutch 
to degree level draws attention; I'm sure that I've been offered jobs 
simply because it was intriguing to have a Dutch-speaking Englishman 
around. Currently, I'm involved in promoting co-operative projects 
between Dutch and English theatre practioners, I'm pursuing a masters 
degree in Arts Administration and Cultural Policy, and my second 
translation of a Dutch play has also received a professional production,
 with more translation commissions to follow. Safina KhatunBA Dutch and Management StudiesGraduated: 2007Teacher of Business Studies   UCL offered a unique opportunity to combine my interest in Dutch 
and Business Management.   The range of courses available in the Dutch Department and the 
Management Studies Department were both exceptional and engaging.   The support I received from the staff in the Dutch department was 
magnanimous. The lecturers are some of the most inspiring and generous 
people I have ever met. It has been a privilege to have them contribute 
to my education.   Learning Dutch has equipped me with the tools necessary to carry 
out a project I am presently involved in. I am translating a Dutch Maths
 Syllabus for an educational charity that is very close to my heart. The
 Management aspect of my degree has enabled me to transmit my enthusiasm
 for the subject to future entrepreneurs.   Lorin D’CostaBA Dutch and Management StudiesGraduated: 2007professional chess player/teacher   My mother is Belgian, and had always wished to be able to speak 
Dutch with my family there. Of course most of them could speak English, 
but I found that I was able to learn so much more about my family and 
their culture purely because they could narrate to me in their own 
language.  The intensiveness. At school, for both GCSE and A-level, language 
learning sometimes appeared a bit slow and stilted. At university, the 
emphasis is on learning quickly and tackling the language head on from 
the beginning.   I found it to be very enjoyable. The courses utilised a whole 
variety of methods, and the Dutch department has a large annex in the 
UCL main library so students are never short of materials to use. Being a
 relatively small department, each student gets to know the others very 
well over the course of the 4 year degree and because they all have the 
same goal (to learn Dutch!) it is more advantageous for language 
development than being in a very large department.   My personal aim from studying Dutch was due to family reasons 
(point 1) and in this respect, it has been an unqualified success. Also,
 I have been able to play for a Dutch chess team (schaakteam utrecht, 
http://www.jeugdteam.nl/) and practice frequently with Dutch friends 
from there and also from my erasmus year abroad. Finally, I’m considering
  getting a job in Belgium/Holland in the future where the language 
would come in very useful.  Studying Dutch at UCL in London has many advantages, as London is 
such a diverse, metropolitan city that one can take a look at the Dutch 
influence in London which wouldn’t be possible if studying at a smaller 
university in a suburban area.  Milena MüllerBA European Social and Political Studies (Dutch pathway)Graduated: 2007Student 
   UCL offered me the unique opportunity to combine a social science 
degree with the study of a European language. Having lived close to the 
Dutch border in Germany for many years, it was an obvious choice to 
study the language of my neighbours.
   The year abroad was one of the best experiences of my degree 
programme. I really enjoyed studying and working in the Netherlands. It 
was great to put the language skills that I had acquired during my first
 two years at UCL into practice. 
   I really enjoyed being a student at the UCL Dutch department. The 
greatest benefit of the Dutch department is its relatively small size. 
Everyone knows everyone; people care about each other. Especially the 
level of support that was offered to students was unmatched.
   It was a great experience to see that Dutch can be an international 
language of communication. Last year I undertook a project with a 
Chinese student who had lived in the Netherlands for many years. We 
immediately started to communicate in Dutch!   Studying at UCL was fantastic! I usually still come back and visit UCL when I am in London.  Elena KostovaCultural Studies  / Affiliate Student from Erasmus University 
Rotterdam Graduated: 2007Assistant Artist Manager 
  Known as one of the best colleges in the UK, I primarily chose for UCL
 because of its central position in the English capital and also because
 of the  outstanding reputation that it's Dutch faculty has in the 
Netherlands as being the best and the biggest Dutch study programme in 
the English speaking world.  The possibility to follow my own path and freedom to design my own curriculum which suited my interests.
  Studying at UCL was a life enriching experience. The Department of 
Dutch is a relatively small faculty which offers plenty of opportunity 
for students and teachers to interact on a daily basis not only through 
the lectures, but also through the extra curricular activities.  During 
the Weekly coffee ours (koffie-uurtjes) students across the faculty had a
 chance to meet and socialize with the faculty stuff and the affiliate
 students. Also, occasionally we had theme evenings whereby we would 
have an opportunity to view a Dutch film or go to the famous Dutch cafe 
Hems in China Town.
  The beauty and the advantage of having spent an academic year at the 
Department of Dutch was the possibility not only to master a new 
language but also to socially and culturally expand my horizons. Also, 
the knowledge of Dutch language and culture has proven to be an asset in
 my current job. As I currently work at an International Agency for 
classical music and the Netherlands and Flanders are very important 
territory with the rich classical music life and plenty of venues and 
world renowned orchestra's I am considered by my colleagues as a 
cultural broker, somebody who is not only able to understand what people
 on the other side of the canal say but more importantly what they 
really mean.
  I would warmly recommend to anybody who wishes to study in the heart 
of London in an intimate and intellectually stimulating and challenging 
environment to visit the faculty of Dutch and get the first hand 
experience.  Benjamin NichollsBA DutchGraduated: 2004Author 
  I wanted to learn Dutch properly because my mum is half Dutch and I 
still have regular contact with my family in the Netherlands. I chose 
UCL because I wanted to see what it was like living in London.  The year abroad. It was great to live in the fantastic city of Antwerpen.  Being a student in the Dutch Department is to be part of a truly gezellige sfeer.
 Because it is a small department, it is easy to meet and get to know 
other students and  the lecturers. I felt that there was a comfortable 
balance between  respect and familiarity in the  
relationship between the professors, lecturers and students.
  4Quite simply it has meant that I can have conversations with the 
youngest and eldest generations in my family who either cannot speak 
English or have not yet learnt it. For that reason alone (as well as 
others), my degree was worth every minute and every penny.
  It was during my time at the Dutch Department that I began to research
 my family tree. This has led to me writing and publishing two novels on
 that subject, with more to come as part of a series. I am grateful to 
the Tessa de Loo who was the Writer-in-Residence at the Dutch Department
 in my first year for reading some of my work and offering me advice and
 encouragement. Will KellyBA Dutch and GermanGraduated: 2001Freelance Translator 
  I had lived in the Netherlands as a child and wanted to study the 
language. UCL appealed as it was a prestigious university in a city that
  presented many interesting opportunities for a young student.  The department was very friendly and supportive.  Everybody knew everybody and the staff were great.
  Due to my language skills, I was headhunted for various positions in 
business. I also went on to study a Masters at the Universiteit Leiden, 
for which I earned a distinction. I have since become a freelance 
translator (Dutch>English) and have recently finished 
translating a book on the tensions that exist between politics, law and 
literature, the theories in which were 'tested' in the poetry of Joost 
van den Vondel (I also had to translate a lot of poetry). The book is 
entitled 'Vondel belicht: voorstellingen van soevereiniteit' in the 
original Dutch, and will be called 'Sovereignty, Inviolability & the
 Dutch Golden Age Poet Joost van den Vondel'. It is to be published by a
 world-leading academic publishing house late 2008. 
  Having UCL on my CV has been a great stepping stone in my career so 
far. I have very fond memories of the department and hope my work or 
study will cause us to cross paths again! Neil HalpinBA Dutch and GermanGraduated: 2001Technical Account Manager, Yahoo! 
  I had previously visited the Netherlands on numerous occasions and had
 developed an interest in both the country and the language. Having 
studied German at school for years, I was interested in combining I was 
also interested in combining German with another language, and thought 
Dutch would be a good choice. UCL was one of the few universities which 
offered a 50/50 degree combining both. 
  I liked the fact that my studies were not only language-related, but 
encompassed other areas too, such as literature, linguistics and social 
history.
  I always enjoyed my time at the Dutch department, which was much 
smaller and intimate than many others at UCL. There was a lot of 
flexibility and due to the relatively high staff-student ratio, it was 
always easy to approach the lecturers. 
  When I graduated, I thought: what now. I did an EFL course and lived 
in Germany for a few years, where I taught English, before retuning to 
London. It turned out that Yahoo! was looking for a Dutch speaker to 
join a team in their search marketing department, so that 
their sales staff in Amsterdam could be supported. For two years, I 
spoke Dutch on a daily basis. I then moved to a more pan-Euro role with 
Yahoo! and continue to work directly with some of the largest Dutch 
advertisers, though I now also use my German regularly too. 
Additionally, I managed, with great ease, to learn Spanish some years 
back, using many of the learning techniques I'd picked up at UCL. I 
never really expected Dutch to feature particularly in my 
post-university career. How wrong I was!

  I really enjoyed my time at UCL and my year abroad at the Vrije 
Universiteit in Amsterdam and the Universität Hamburg; I would 
whole-heartedly recommend a combined Dutch/German degree at UCL to 
anyone.  Chris ShephardBA Dutch with Management StudiesGraduated: 2000Business Park Co-ordinator/BID Project Manager, Arun District Council 
  Because studying Dutch sounded exciting and a fresh challenge from 
French & German. I was also keen on a year abroad to broaden my 
horizons. Naturally UCL was first choice for me because of its history, 
approach to the world and civilisation and its location. 
  A major (in Dutch) and minor (in Management Studies) mix kept things 
interesting. I also don't think I've ever been so challenged 
academically! 
  Excellent, because it was like a family. Our small class knew everyone
 and got to know each other well. It was also very relaxed, but help was
 on hand whenever you wanted it. 
  My degree in general has helped me become a project manager. I find 
the way I approach situations and communicate with people helps me a 
great deal, skills which I put down to going to UCL and studying the 
degree I did. I spend a lot of time with businesses and business people,
 so having a broad range of skills can really help gain their trust and 
build a reputation. Revealing that you can speak Dutch can be a good 
topic of conversation at networking evenings too!  I also use my Dutch 
knowledge in different situations, which can surprise people! For 
example, my girlfriend runs her own greetings card business which 
specialises in carriage driving images. We were selling her work at the 
South Of England Carriage Driving Fair where we had a stall, and this 
Dutch couple came up and were talking to each other in Dutch. "Ik vind 
het leuk" the man said about Helen's cards. I knew what he was on about,
 and we sold quite a few not least because of my chit chat with them, in
 Dutch of course! 
  It was certainly one of the best times of my life, where I learnt a 
lot. I still keep in touch with a lot of my friends and go back from 
time to time. I contribute to the UCL Friends Programme so that future 
students can benefit from grants etc just as I did, which enabled me to 
finish my degree.You can find more student testimonials and videos on life in the department on the UCL Alternative Languages website.
				    Dutch
				    SELCS
				As we move towards a global future, foreign languages and intercultural communicative skills become increasingly important. Dutch is the modern language closest to English and thus the most accessible language to learn. Nevertheless, graduates with a good command of Dutch are still rare, thus learning Dutch opens up unique career opportunities across Europe and beyond.You may be surprised to learn that Dutch is indeed a global language. Not only is it spoken by over 23 million people in two neighbouring countries of Britain, the Netherlands and Flanders (the northern half of Belgium), but it is also the official language of Suriname in South America and widely understood in the Dutch Caribbean as well as to some extent in Indonesia. Afrikaans which is spoken by some 17 million speakers in South Africa and Namibia, is closely related to Dutch and to a large extent intelligible if you know Dutch.Choosing Dutch at UCL enables you to study this Germanic language from scratch and graduate as a fluent and interculturally competent speaker of Dutch with deep insights into the social and cultural issues of the Netherlands and Belgium. You will gain a thorough knowledge – which is fairly uncommon – of a European region which, despite its size, has made enormous contributions to global culture and society in fields ranging from art and literature over architecture and design, science and engineering to progressive social policies, multiculturalism, popular culture and sports.UCL houses the largest Centre for Dutch Studies in the English-speaking world. The department, founded in 1919, was the first of its kind in the United Kingdom. Today it offers a full range of undergraduate and graduate degree programmes and is an acknowledged centre of excellence in both teaching and research in the field of Dutch and Flemish language and culture. You can either study Dutch on its own or combine it with Management Studies, History of Art, Film Studies etc. or another modern European language like German, French, Spanish, Italian or one of the Scandinavian or Eastern European languages.The department also offers a uniquely supportive environment for those studying Dutch. As a student at UCL you will have access to the most comprehensive Dutch library in the English speaking world, a unique collection of over 12,000 volumes covering all aspects of Dutch Studies. The volumes are supplemented by a large collection of periodicals, interactive multimedia study resources, and a growing collection of Dutch and Belgian movies and documentaries on DVD. The Dutch Department hosts an annual Writer in Residence scheme with acclaimed Dutch writers coming over from the Netherlands and working with students. Our position in the heart of London also provides you with access to the Dutch collections in London’s major Art Galleries, the British Library, the National Film Theatre etc. and to a rich variety of cultural events and activities with a Dutch and Belgian focus such as exhibitions, concerts, poetry readings, film festivals, plays and visits from leading Dutch-writing authors, scholars, musicians and performers.
				    Dutch
				    SELCS
				Banner Head Image If you have studied at UCL for more than three months then you are a member of theUCL Alumni Network.  For information on everything that is available to former students of UCL please visit the dedicated UCL Alumni website. Among other things you can get a UCL Alumni Benefits cards which offers you continued access to the Dutch library and much more.We would like to stay in touch with you after your graduation. If you want to keep up to date about events, reunions and news from the Department, please inform us about changes of your address. You may also want to subscribe to our RSS feed(newsletter). We also invite all alumni and friends of the department to stay in touch by joining this Linked-In group, free of any obligation. The intention is to create a network and community and enable exchange between alumni across the years.  We want to make sure that our students have the best possible education at UCL. You can help us to provide this by making a gift to the Dutch Department. Your generosity will provide us with a source of income which can be used to respond to needs and opportunities as and when they arise. From supporting student scholarships to investing in new facilities, 100% of your gift will be directed to areas of the greatest importance within the department. You can make a gift online using a credit or debit card or set up a regular donation using direct debit. If you wish to make a gift to your department you can do so online by clicking the button above or by downloading a gift form. If you wish to discuss making a gift to your department please do not hesitate to contact the Annual Fund team on +44 (0)20 7679 9741. 
				    Dutch
				    SELCS
				    Our research encompasses Dutch and Flemish language, literature, culture and histories of the Low Countries, including places where Dutch historically has played, or continues to play a role, including parts the Americas, Southern Africa and South East Asia. We approach these in ways that are 
both multi-disciplinary and inter-disciplinary; that are both national 
but also comparative and inter-cultural; and that are synchronic but 
also diachronic, encompassing the period stretching from the 16th century Revolt and the Dutch Golden Age to the present day.The Centre brings together the Dutch and Flemish scholarship across the faculties of UCL. Visit the website of the UCL Centre for Low Countries Studies.   Staff research interests include the 
following:  Joint
 supervision with colleagues in the UCL School of European Languages, 
Culture and Society (departments of French, German, Italian, Scandinavian Studies, and Spanish, Portuguese and Latin American Studies), or other departments of UCL (e.g. Slavonic and Eastern European Studies (SSEES), Hebrew and Jewish Studies, History, Geography, Digital Humanities ...) is possible and 
encouraged. The same goes for joint supervision with colleagues at Kings
 College London and the School of Advanced Studies, as part of the London Arts & Humanities Partnership (LAHP), and the Universities of Oxford and Brighton as part of the Doctoral Training Centre in Heritage Science (SEAHA).    Inquiries should in the first place be directed to the most appropriate member of staff, or to the departmental administrator. More information for prospective research students, including funding opportunities, can be found here.
				    Dutch
				    SELCS
				London London is the premier centre in the English-speaking world for research in Low Countries history and culture, including the Golden Ages of Flanders and Holland in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. Its resources for research in this field are truly extraordinary, ranging from manuscripts to paintings, pamphlets to engravings.With some 17,500 seventeenth-century Dutch imprints, the British Library hosts the biggest Dutch and Flemish collections outside the Low Countries.Its collection of early modern materials rival those in the national libraries of Belgium and the Netherlands.Early modern poetry, drama, theology, and politics are very well represented, as are the natural sciences and the superb history of printing in the Low Countries.Housed at the University of London the library includes over 700 titles published by the renowned Elzevier publishing house in the seventeenth century.This collection compliments the holdings of the British Library to provide nearly a complete set of Elseviers in London.Senate House Library also owns a substantial Belgian collection.Part of the University of London Research Library Services), this library specialises in research aids, such as inventories and catalogues, and in modern printed editions of primary sources.A complete set of the Rijks Geschiedkundige Publicatiën is among the riches available for perusal on open shelves in the Library’s Low Countries Room.The Institute Library is also the only one in the UK with full sets of various genealogical and antiquarian periodicals from the Low Countries.Boasting the largest Low Countries studies collection in a UK university library, its importance is acknowledged by the continuing financial support of the Nederlandse Taalunie (Dutch Language Union).The collection consists of approximately 13,800 books of primary and secondary materials and some 100 periodicals.  Located in Kew, the archives contain a vast quantity of materials relating to the history of the Low Countries generally and to relations between Britain and the Low Countries specifically.Most of these materials are contained in two collections: The latter includes some 6000 boxes of `Prize Papers’ seized from Dutch ships in the 17th and 18th centuries. Only recently inventoried, these papers, still largely unexplored, include a mass of 17th and 18th-century letters written by Dutch merchants and sailors to their families and vice-versa.As a magnet over the centuries for refugees and immigrants from the Low Countries, a variety of local and church archives (e.g. that of Austin Friars, the Dutch Reformed Church in London) contain records with demographic, family, and other data about the many thousands of Netherlanders who have lived in England.The following hold major collections of Dutch and Flemish art, including top pieces by the great masters:A wealth of Dutch and Flemish material, including 82 drawings by Rembrandt himself are included in the following collection:It is also worth noting that London museums and galleries host frequent exhibitions devoted to a particular corpus of Dutch and Flemish art, for example:Last but not least there is the UCL Art Museum which has a collection of Rembrandt prints and other Dutch and Flemish objects.Part of the University of London’s School of Advanced Study, the institute hosts a seminar series which takes place around 10 times a year and sees UK, Dutch, Belgian and other and international scholars present the findings of recent research. scholars and postgraduate students from universities across southern England attend. Also part of the University of London’s School of Advanced Study, the Warburg Institute enjoys world fame as a centre for the study of Renaissance culture in all its aspects, visual as well as textual.As one of the key foci of Renaissance culture, the Low Countries are central to the Institute’s library holdings, its photographic collection (a vast assemblage of photographs and photocopies useful for research in iconology), and to the research agendas of its staff, which includes experts in Rubens and in Dutch still life paintings. The Committee for Low Countries Studies in London  exists to co-ordinate activity and exchange information between individuals active in Low Countries studies in London. It comprises scholars active in the field, plus representatives of the Royal Netherlands Embassy, the Embassy of Belgium in London, and Flanders House, which represents the Flemish Government, and is overseen by an Advisory Board.
				    Dutch
				    SELCS
				Banner Head Image
				    Dutch
				    SELCS
				Banner Head Image  L. P. Boon  Concrete PoetryEmblems  Louis Couperus  P. C. Hooft  Multatuli  Language Taster 
 History of the
 Dutch language   Dutch Linguistics  Dutch Revolt I  Dutch Revolt II   Nova Zembla    Batavian Myth 
 Flemish
 Movement Cultural Studies
 Taster Buoyant Brussels  L. P. Boon  Concrete PoëzieEmblemen  Louis Couperus  P. C. Hooft  Multatuli
 Geschiedenis van
 het Nederlands  
 Nederlandse
 Taalkunde 
 Nederlandse
 Opstand I 
 Nederlandse
 Opstand II   Nova Zembla   Bataafse Mythe 
 Vlaamse
 Beweging Multicultureel
 Nederland   Language Taster Bruisend Brussel
				    Dutch
				    SELCS
				 The Department of Dutch at UCL hosts an annual Writer in Residence scheme.The scheme is funded by the Nederlands Letterenfonds (Amsterdam). It allows a Dutch or a Flemish writer to spend up to six weeks at UCL, on an annual basis.The
 Writer in Residence engages with students as well as staff in the 
Department, and actively contributes to undergraduate and postgraduate 
teaching.  Former
 Writers in Residence have included such acclaimed authors as: J. 
Bernlef, Marcel Möring, Leo Pleysier, H. C. ten Berge, Arnon Grunberg, 
Frank Martinus Arion, Tessa de Loo, Hans Maarten van den Brink, Helga 
Ruebsamen, and Arthur Japin.
				    Dutch
				    SELCS
				Banner Head ImageUse the links below to the central information found on the School of European, Language & Culture website for information on our programmes, including degree options for Dutch, the Year Abroad, applications and funding. 
				    Dutch
				    SELCS
				You can follow the MA Dutch Studies (Language, Culture, History) or study Dutch as part of the MA Translation Theory & Practice or MA Comparative Literature. Follow the links for the official UCL Postgraduate Prospectus information.
				    Dutch
				    SELCS
				UCL Dutch has one of the largest Dutch libraries outside of the Low Countries and hosts an annual Writer-in-Residence as well as regular research seminars by visiting lecturers and professors from the Netherlands and Flanders, ensuring close contact between the department and the Dutch-speaking countries. Students have opportunities to work in conjunction with other School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS) departments and across UCL.September 2018
                            Note on fees:
                            The tuition fees shown are for the year indicated above. Fees for subsequent years may increase or otherwise vary. Further information on fee status, fee increases and the fee schedule can be viewed on the UCL Current Students website.
                            
                        A minimum of an upper second-class UK Bachelor’s degree in a relevant discipline or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedFurther information can be found on our English language requirements page.Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website.International applicants can find out the equivalent qualification for their country by selecting from the list below.Select your country:
                                
                                    Select a country
                                    
                                        Afghanistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Albania
                                    
                                    
                                        Algeria
                                    
                                    
                                        Argentina
                                    
                                    
                                        Armenia
                                    
                                    
                                        Australia
                                    
                                    
                                        Austria
                                    
                                    
                                        Azerbaijan
                                    
                                    
                                        Bahrain
                                    
                                    
                                        Bangladesh
                                    
                                    
                                        Barbados
                                    
                                    
                                        Belarus
                                    
                                    
                                        Belgium
                                    
                                    
                                        Belize
                                    
                                    
                                        Bolivia
                                    
                                    
                                        Bosnia and Herzegovina
                                    
                                    
                                        Botswana
                                    
                                    
                                        Brazil
                                    
                                    
                                        Brunei
                                    
                                    
                                        Bulgaria
                                    
                                    
                                        Cambodia
                                    
                                    
                                        Cameroon
                                    
                                    
                                        Canada
                                    
                                    
                                        Caribbean / West Indies
                                    
                                    
                                        Chile
                                    
                                    
                                        China
                                    
                                    
                                        Colombia
                                    
                                    
                                        Congo (DR)
                                    
                                    
                                        Costa Rica
                                    
                                    
                                        Croatia
                                    
                                    
                                        Cuba
                                    
                                    
                                        Cyprus (Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communities)
                                    
                                    
                                        Czech Republic
                                    
                                    
                                        Denmark
                                    
                                    
                                        Dominican Republic
                                    
                                    
                                        Ecuador
                                    
                                    
                                        Egypt
                                    
                                    
                                        El Salvador
                                    
                                    
                                        Eritrea
                                    
                                    
                                        Estonia
                                    
                                    
                                        Ethiopia
                                    
                                    
                                        Finland
                                    
                                    
                                        France
                                    
                                    
                                        Georgia
                                    
                                    
                                        Germany
                                    
                                    
                                        Ghana
                                    
                                    
                                        Greece
                                    
                                    
                                        Guatemala
                                    
                                    
                                        Guyana
                                    
                                    
                                        Honduras
                                    
                                    
                                        Honduras
                                    
                                    
                                        Hong Kong
                                    
                                    
                                        Hungary
                                    
                                    
                                        Iceland
                                    
                                    
                                        India
                                    
                                    
                                        Indonesia
                                    
                                    
                                        Iran
                                    
                                    
                                        Iraq
                                    
                                    
                                        Ireland
                                    
                                    
                                        Israel
                                    
                                    
                                        Italy
                                    
                                    
                                        Ivory Coast
                                    
                                    
                                        Jamaica
                                    
                                    
                                        Japan
                                    
                                    
                                        Jordan
                                    
                                    
                                        Kazakhstan
                                    
                                    
                                        Kenya
                                    
                                    
                                        Kuwait
                                    
                                    
                                        Kyrgyzstan
                                    
                                    
                                        Latvia
                                    
                                    
                                        Lebanon
                                    
                                    
                                        Lesotho
                                    
                                    
                                        Liberia
                                    
                                    
                                        Libya
                                    
                                    
                                        Lithuania
                                    
                                    
                                        Luxembourg
                                    
                                    
                                        Macau
                                    
                                    
                                        Macedonia
                                    
                                    
                                        Madagascar
                                    
                                    
                                        Malawi
                                    
                                    
                                        Malaysia
                                    
                                    
                                        Malta
                                    
                                    
                                        Mauritius
                                    
                                    
                                        Mexico
                                    
                                    
                                        Moldova
                                    
                                    
                                        Mongolia
                                    
                                    
                                        Montenegro
                                    
                                    
                                        Morocco
                                    
                                    
                                        Myanmar (Burma)
                                    
                                    
                                        Namibia
                                    
                                    
                                        Nepal
                                    
                                    
                                        Netherlands
                                    
                                    
                                        New Zealand
                                    
                                    
                                        Nicaragua
                                    
                                    
                                        Nigeria
                                    
                                    
                                        Norway
                                    
                                    
                                        Oman
                                    
                                    
                                        Pakistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Panama
                                    
                                    
                                        Papua New Guinea
                                    
                                    
                                        Paraguay
                                    
                                    
                                        Peru
                                    
                                    
                                        Philippines
                                    
                                    
                                        Poland
                                    
                                    
                                        Portugal
                                    
                                    
                                        Qatar
                                    
                                    
                                        Romania
                                    
                                    
                                        Russia
                                    
                                    
                                        Rwanda
                                    
                                    
                                        Saudi Arabia
                                    
                                    
                                        Senegal
                                    
                                    
                                        Serbia 
                                    
                                    
                                        Sierra Leone
                                    
                                    
                                        Singapore
                                    
                                    
                                        Slovakia
                                    
                                    
                                        Slovenia
                                    
                                    
                                        South Africa
                                    
                                    
                                        South Korea
                                    
                                    
                                        Spain
                                    
                                    
                                        Sri Lanka
                                    
                                    
                                        Sudan
                                    
                                    
                                        Sweden
                                    
                                    
                                        Switzerland
                                    
                                    
                                        Syria
                                    
                                    
                                        Taiwan
                                    
                                    
                                        Tajikistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Tanzania
                                    
                                    
                                        Thailand
                                    
                                    
                                        Trinidad & Tobago
                                    
                                    
                                        Tunisia
                                    
                                    
                                        Turkey (including Turkish sector of Cyprus)
                                    
                                    
                                        Turkmenistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Uganda
                                    
                                    
                                        Ukraine
                                    
                                    
                                        United Arab Emirates (UAE)
                                    
                                    
                                        United States of America
                                    
                                    
                                        Uruguay
                                    
                                    
                                        Uzbekistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Venezuela
                                    
                                    
                                        Vietnam
                                    
                                    
                                        Zambia
                                    
                                    
                                        Zimbabwe
                                    
                                
                            
                                    More information can be found on the department website: 
                                    Dutch MPhil/PhD
                                For a comprehensive list of the funding opportunities available at UCL, including funding relevant to your nationality, please visit the Scholarships and Funding website.Recent graduates have used their knowledge to work in the fields of research, curatorship, the BBC, the BFI, advertising and the film industry.Students are supported by a dynamic research culture, a stimulating environment and excellent opportunities for research training. UCL runs numerous seminar series and guest lectures, and researchers have access to experts in the Dutch world.UCL's central location offers students easy access to London's extraordinary resources, including the major collection of Dutch and Flemish Art in the National Gallery, the Courtauld Institute of Art, and the Warburg Institute, among many others. The cultural offerings of the Dutch Centre Austin Friars, Flanders House, and the Dutch and Belgian embassies and associations, and a wealth of exhibitions, films and theatrical performances are all nearby
                                            Department: School of European Languages, Culture & Society
                                        
                                            Student / staff numbers
                                            
                                                › 52 staff
                                                
                                                    including 1 postdocs
                                                
                                            
                                            
                                                › 10 taught students
                                            
                                            
                                                › 55 research students
                                            
                                        The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.
                                                The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture & Society
                                                74% rated 4* (‘world-leading’) or 3* (‘internationally excellent’)
                                            Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.Students are advised to apply as early as possible due to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding (particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application deadlines.Deadlines and start dates are usually dictated by funding arrangements so check with the department or academic unit to see if you need to consider these in your application preparation. In most cases you should identify and contact potential supervisors before making your application. For more information see our How to apply page.For more information see our Applications page.
                                        European Languages, Culture and Society
                                    
                                        Arts and Humanities
                                    
                                        School of European Languages, Culture & Society
                                    
                                Register interest in your chosen subjects.
                                Receive notice of graduate open days, events and more.
                            
                            Note on fees:
                            The tuition fees shown are for the year indicated above. Fees for subsequent years may increase or otherwise vary. Further information on fee status, fee increases and the fee schedule can be viewed on the UCL Current Students website.
                            
                        
				    Dutch
				    SELCS
				
                            Note on fees:
                            The tuition fees shown are for the year indicated above. Fees for subsequent years may increase or otherwise vary. Further information on fee status, fee increases and the fee schedule can be viewed on the UCL Current Students website.
                            
                        
                            Note on fees:
                            The tuition fees shown are for the year indicated above. Fees for subsequent years may increase or otherwise vary. Further information on fee status, fee increases and the fee schedule can be viewed on the UCL Current Students website.
                            
                        
				    Dutch
				    SELCS
				This interdisciplinary MA is taught on an interdepartmental basis by staff who cover an exceptionally wide range of expertise. The flexible nature of the programme enables students to develop their own interests whilst gaining a thorough understanding of modern literary theory and comparative literature.September 2018
                                Note on fees:
                                The tuition fees shown are for the year indicated above. Fees for subsequent years may increase or otherwise vary. Further information on fee status, fee increases and the fee schedule can be viewed on the UCL Current Students website.
                                
                            A minimum of an upper second-class Bachelor's degree in a relevant discipline from a UK university or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedFurther information can be found on our English language requirements page.Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website.International applicants can find out the equivalent qualification for their country by selecting from the list below.Select your country:
                                
                                    Select a country
                                    
                                        Afghanistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Albania
                                    
                                    
                                        Algeria
                                    
                                    
                                        Argentina
                                    
                                    
                                        Armenia
                                    
                                    
                                        Australia
                                    
                                    
                                        Austria
                                    
                                    
                                        Azerbaijan
                                    
                                    
                                        Bahrain
                                    
                                    
                                        Bangladesh
                                    
                                    
                                        Barbados
                                    
                                    
                                        Belarus
                                    
                                    
                                        Belgium
                                    
                                    
                                        Belize
                                    
                                    
                                        Bolivia
                                    
                                    
                                        Bosnia and Herzegovina
                                    
                                    
                                        Botswana
                                    
                                    
                                        Brazil
                                    
                                    
                                        Brunei
                                    
                                    
                                        Bulgaria
                                    
                                    
                                        Cambodia
                                    
                                    
                                        Cameroon
                                    
                                    
                                        Canada
                                    
                                    
                                        Caribbean / West Indies
                                    
                                    
                                        Chile
                                    
                                    
                                        China
                                    
                                    
                                        Colombia
                                    
                                    
                                        Congo (DR)
                                    
                                    
                                        Costa Rica
                                    
                                    
                                        Croatia
                                    
                                    
                                        Cuba
                                    
                                    
                                        Cyprus (Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communities)
                                    
                                    
                                        Czech Republic
                                    
                                    
                                        Denmark
                                    
                                    
                                        Dominican Republic
                                    
                                    
                                        Ecuador
                                    
                                    
                                        Egypt
                                    
                                    
                                        El Salvador
                                    
                                    
                                        Eritrea
                                    
                                    
                                        Estonia
                                    
                                    
                                        Ethiopia
                                    
                                    
                                        Finland
                                    
                                    
                                        France
                                    
                                    
                                        Georgia
                                    
                                    
                                        Germany
                                    
                                    
                                        Ghana
                                    
                                    
                                        Greece
                                    
                                    
                                        Guatemala
                                    
                                    
                                        Guyana
                                    
                                    
                                        Honduras
                                    
                                    
                                        Honduras
                                    
                                    
                                        Hong Kong
                                    
                                    
                                        Hungary
                                    
                                    
                                        Iceland
                                    
                                    
                                        India
                                    
                                    
                                        Indonesia
                                    
                                    
                                        Iran
                                    
                                    
                                        Iraq
                                    
                                    
                                        Ireland
                                    
                                    
                                        Israel
                                    
                                    
                                        Italy
                                    
                                    
                                        Ivory Coast
                                    
                                    
                                        Jamaica
                                    
                                    
                                        Japan
                                    
                                    
                                        Jordan
                                    
                                    
                                        Kazakhstan
                                    
                                    
                                        Kenya
                                    
                                    
                                        Kuwait
                                    
                                    
                                        Kyrgyzstan
                                    
                                    
                                        Latvia
                                    
                                    
                                        Lebanon
                                    
                                    
                                        Lesotho
                                    
                                    
                                        Liberia
                                    
                                    
                                        Libya
                                    
                                    
                                        Lithuania
                                    
                                    
                                        Luxembourg
                                    
                                    
                                        Macau
                                    
                                    
                                        Macedonia
                                    
                                    
                                        Madagascar
                                    
                                    
                                        Malawi
                                    
                                    
                                        Malaysia
                                    
                                    
                                        Malta
                                    
                                    
                                        Mauritius
                                    
                                    
                                        Mexico
                                    
                                    
                                        Moldova
                                    
                                    
                                        Mongolia
                                    
                                    
                                        Montenegro
                                    
                                    
                                        Morocco
                                    
                                    
                                        Myanmar (Burma)
                                    
                                    
                                        Namibia
                                    
                                    
                                        Nepal
                                    
                                    
                                        Netherlands
                                    
                                    
                                        New Zealand
                                    
                                    
                                        Nicaragua
                                    
                                    
                                        Nigeria
                                    
                                    
                                        Norway
                                    
                                    
                                        Oman
                                    
                                    
                                        Pakistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Panama
                                    
                                    
                                        Papua New Guinea
                                    
                                    
                                        Paraguay
                                    
                                    
                                        Peru
                                    
                                    
                                        Philippines
                                    
                                    
                                        Poland
                                    
                                    
                                        Portugal
                                    
                                    
                                        Qatar
                                    
                                    
                                        Romania
                                    
                                    
                                        Russia
                                    
                                    
                                        Rwanda
                                    
                                    
                                        Saudi Arabia
                                    
                                    
                                        Senegal
                                    
                                    
                                        Serbia 
                                    
                                    
                                        Sierra Leone
                                    
                                    
                                        Singapore
                                    
                                    
                                        Slovakia
                                    
                                    
                                        Slovenia
                                    
                                    
                                        South Africa
                                    
                                    
                                        South Korea
                                    
                                    
                                        Spain
                                    
                                    
                                        Sri Lanka
                                    
                                    
                                        Sudan
                                    
                                    
                                        Sweden
                                    
                                    
                                        Switzerland
                                    
                                    
                                        Syria
                                    
                                    
                                        Taiwan
                                    
                                    
                                        Tajikistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Tanzania
                                    
                                    
                                        Thailand
                                    
                                    
                                        Trinidad & Tobago
                                    
                                    
                                        Tunisia
                                    
                                    
                                        Turkey (including Turkish sector of Cyprus)
                                    
                                    
                                        Turkmenistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Uganda
                                    
                                    
                                        Ukraine
                                    
                                    
                                        United Arab Emirates (UAE)
                                    
                                    
                                        United States of America
                                    
                                    
                                        Uruguay
                                    
                                    
                                        Uzbekistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Venezuela
                                    
                                    
                                        Vietnam
                                    
                                    
                                        Zambia
                                    
                                    
                                        Zimbabwe
                                    
                                
                            Students develop a thorough understanding of modern theories of literature, the contexts of literature and the interaction between literatures, and gain practical experience in comparative literary studies. The programme also develops the critical and analytical skills necessary for research in this field.Students undertake modules to the value of 180 credits. There are two pathways through the programme: taught and research.Taught: two core modules (60 credits), two optional modules (60 credits), and a dissertation (60 credits). Research: two core modules (60 credits), one optional module (30 credits), and a dissertation (90 credits).Options may include the following:All students undertake an independent research project which culminates in a dissertation of 12,000 words (taught pathway) or 18,000 words (research pathway).Teaching and supervision are organised on an interdepartmental basis. Teaching sessions are envisaged as interactive, with a limited amount of lecturing and an emphasis on student participation and critical discussion. Assessment is based on a combination of shorter and longer essays and the dissertation.
                                        Further information on modules and degree structure is available on the department website: 
                                        Comparative Literature MA
                                    All prospective students can apply for the UCL Graduate School Open Scholarships.For a comprehensive list of the funding opportunities available at UCL, including funding relevant to your nationality, please visit the Scholarships and Funding website.Publishing, academic teaching, research and journalism are the most common destinations for graduates with an MA in Comparative Literature but the civil service, teaching or employment as a translator or copywriter are becoming increasingly attractive alternatives.Careers data is taken from the ‘Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education’ survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2012–2014 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.With its exceptional range of modern and ancient languages and cultures, UCL provides a comprehensive environment for comparative literary study.Departments housed in the Faculty of Arts & Humanities cover Danish, Dutch, English, French, German, Ancient Greek, Hebrew, Icelandic, Italian, Latin, Norwegian, Spanish, Swedish and Yiddish. The School of Slavonic and East European Studies (SSEES) deals with all the major languages, literatures and cultures of Central and Eastern Europe. A co-operation agreement with SOAS, University of London, covers teaching as well as research and ensures global coverage.Many UCL staff have comparative and interdisciplinary research interests in addition to their subject specialism. We are particularly interested in innovative approaches to literary and cultural studies, and in research with a comparative, cross-cultural, and interdisciplinary focus, including research in the following fields: literary and cultural theory, material and visual cultures, reception studies, themes and genres, cultural history, comparative gender and performance studies, translation studies, diaspora and migration studies, and new media.
                                            Department: Centre for Multidisciplinary & Intercultural Inquiry
                                        
                                            Student / staff ratios
                                            
                                                › 54 staff
                                                
                                            
                                            
                                                › 293 taught students
                                            
                                            
                                                › 97 research students
                                            
                                        The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.
                                                The following REF score was awarded to the department: Centre for Multidisciplinary & Intercultural Inquiry
                                                
                                            Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website."UCL has a great library as well as a fantastic location to access the Institute of Classical Studies, the British Library and British Museum, and art galleries, museums and theatres that are hosting the latest classical performances or exhibitions.""UCL has an outstanding reputation and offers a vibrant, research-intensive environment. It's also a great place to teach and engage with outstanding students. My office is just a few minutes' walk away from the great resources of the British Library, the British Museum and the research institutes of the University of London, including the Warburg and the Institute of Historical Research. Teaching in such an environment is just bliss.
""I am interested in the novel, narrative technique, literary theory and theories of gender. I have worked on the interaction of fact and fiction in the novel, on the relationship of female and national identity, and on the representation and ethics of shame. I’m currently working on an interdisciplinary project with German historians looking at the reverberations of the Second World War in Europe. I have benefited particularly from being in a department (German) that is in itself interdisciplinary, as well as from the growing interactions between colleagues within and across the faculties. These interactions are becoming more possible, not least through the establishment of the Centre for Multidisciplinary and Intercultural Inquiry (CMII), of which I am currently Chair, but, crucially, the impact of the Faculty Institute of Graduate Studies (FIGS), now extended to two faculties, Arts & Humanities and Social & Historical Sciences.
"Students are advised to apply as early as possible due to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding (particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application deadlines.The programme is particularly suitable for students with a first degree in a language and literature subject, or in a related subject such as history, cultural studies or media studies.  A sophisticated understanding of cultural diversity is essential. A reading knowledge of at least one language other than English is normally expected.For more information see our Applications page.When we assess your application we would like to learn:Together with essential academic requirements, the personal statement is your opportunity to illustrate whether your reasons for applying to this programme match what the programme will deliver.
                                        Multidisciplinary and Intercultural Inquiry (Centre for)
                                    
                                        Arts and Humanities
                                    
                                        Centre for Multidisciplinary & Intercultural Inquiry
                                    
                                Register interest in your chosen subjects.
                                Receive notice of graduate open days, events and more.
                            
                            Degree last modified on 4 October 2017 at 10:05 by UCL Student Recruitment Marketing.
                        
				    Dutch
				    SELCS
				
				    Dutch
				    SELCS
				If this message doesn't clear, could you please report this page to ug-updates@ucl.ac.uk as soon as possible.
				    Dutch
				    SELCS
				Dutch can be studied on its own as a Single honours degree (BA Dutch) or as a Combined honours degree in combination with another language (BA Modern Languages) or another subject such as History of Art, History of Science, Philosophy, Hebrew and Jewish Studies or Management Studies (BA Modern Languages Plus). It can also be taken as a part of the BA Languages and Culture and of the BA Comparative Literature (optionally with Year Abroad).  
				    Dutch
				    SELCS
				This dynamic programme examines world literature from diverse geographical and cultural perspectives and equips students for a career in today’s global society. Alongside cultural topics you will study up to two foreign languages, selected from an exceptional range of modern and ancient languages including Japanese, Arabic and Mandarin Chinese as well as European languages.For entry requirements with other UK qualifications accepted by UCL, choose your qualification from the list below:Not acceptable for entrance to this programmePass in Access to HE Diploma, with a minimum of 23 credits awarded with Distinction in the Level 3 units, the remainder of the Level 3 units awarded with Merit.D3,D3,D3 in three Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subjects. A,A,A at Advanced Highers (or A,A at Advanced Higher and A,A,A at Higher).Successful completion of the WBQ Advanced Skills Challenge Certificate plus 2 GCE A-Levels at grades AAA. A humanities subject required.In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree programmes.The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications and test providers can be found on our English language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International Education.UCL, being London's Global University, provides the ideal environment in which to undertake a comparative literature degree.You will study up to two foreign languages in any combination and will benefit from the very wide range of modern and ancient languages taught at UCL (over forty in total).Our programmes aim to transcend a sole focus on Western Europe. The Comparative Literature BA engages with the global East and South and within Europe, attention is paid to lesser-used languages.UCL is perceived as an important home for comparative studies. There are more than 50 full-time members of academic staff whose primary interests centre on literature and culture. We are frequently chosen to host high-profile public events.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally valued at 0.5 or 1.0 credits, adding up to a total of 4.0 credits for the year. Modules are assessed in the academic year in which they are taken. The balance of compulsory and optional modules varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0 credit is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit Transfer System (ECTS).In years one and two you will take modules in literary theory and cultural history, genres and forms. A wide range of optional language and literary modules are offered by SELCS.You will select up to two foreign languages (choosing from SELCS, UCL Greek & Latin, and UCL Hebrew & Jewish Studies) in any combination, either at beginner's or at a more advanced level.Learning is research based and you will engage in independent critical inquiry across languages and cultures. You will also gain expertise in advanced textual analysis, creative critical writing and the use of new media.You will advance your knowledge and skills, have insight into the global range of literature and culture, study with world-class experts and gain a solid foundation for a career in a connected and multilingual society.An indicative guide to the structure of this programme, year by year.
                                                                Research Methods in Literary Studies 1
                                                                You will select at least 1.0 credit from a wide range of introductory comparative and literature options chosen from different periods and languages, including English. All texts will be available in English or in English translation as appropriate, but may also be read in the original language.You will select at least 1.5 credits of options requiring the use of a language other than English. This will normally consist of one language module plus one language-specific literature elective.
                                                                Imitation, Invention, AuthorshipWord, Image, Sound
                                                                You will select at least 1.0 credit from a wide range of intermediate comparative and literature options chosen from different periods and languages, including English. All texts will be available in English or in English translation as appropriate, but may also be read in the original language.You will select at least 1.5 credits of options requiring the use of a language other than English. This will normally consist of one language module plus one language-specific literature elective.
                                                                Dissertation
                                                                You will select at least 1.0 credit from a wide range of advanced comparative and literature options chosen from different periods and languages, including English. All texts will be available in English or in English translation as appropriate, but may also be read in the original language.You will select at least 1.5 credits of options requiring the use of a language other than English. This will normally consist of one language module plus one language-specific literature elective.Your learning will take place through lectures, seminars, tutorials, interactive groups and multimedia projects. All Comparative Literature students in the same year will take the same core module. Optional modules will be taught by specialist staff members across UCL and will provide you with an opportunity to learn alongside students on other programmes.You will be assessed through written examinations and essays. For language teaching you will be assessed by oral and written examinations. You will complete project work and a dissertation, both of which will contribute to your overall assessment. You will be required to give presentations, work on group and multimedia projects and actively participate in class discussion.Detailed course descriptions are available on the department website: Comparative Literature BA.On graduation you will have gained a breadth of knowledge, cultural awareness, writing skills, and a familiarity with advanced textual analysis. You will have a detailed and effective understanding of at least one language other than English and will be able to work flexibly and creatively across cultures and in a range of fields.The first cohort of students admitted to the Comparative Literature BA are due to graduate after 2018. Therefore, information about career destinations for students on this programme is not yet available. Please see first destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) from School of European Languages and Culture programmes at UCL for a selection of representative careers.Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.Full details of UCL's tuition fees, tuition fee policy and potential increases to fees can be found on the UCL Students website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Your personal statement is very important. We expect a very full account of your literary interests, including extracurricular readings. We want you to reflect on your familiarity with different cultures and on your ability to think critically and creatively across languages and cultures. We particularly welcome applicants with a good knowledge of at least one other language.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.
                                        Application deadline:
                                        15 January 2018                    
                                    We may interview candidates by telephone to assess linguistic ability in another language (if asserted), cultural awareness and intellectual potential. If you meet our entry criteria and show the required level of motivation, we will invite you to an offer-holder open day where you will meet members of our academic staff.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.
                                        European Languages, Culture and Society
                                    
                                        Faculty of Arts & Humanities
                                    
                                        School of European Languages, Culture and Society
                                    
				    Dutch
				    SELCS
				This four-year degree offers the same advantages as the Comparative Literature BA, focusing on European languages and with the added attraction of a year spent abroad in a European country. It combines comparative critical enquiry with a more in-depth study of one modern language and its literature and culture.For entry requirements with other UK qualifications accepted by UCL, choose your qualification from the list below:Not acceptable for entrance to this programmePass in Access to HE Diploma, with a minimum of 23 credits awarded with Distinction in the Level 3 units, the remainder of the Level 3 units awarded with Merit.D3,D3,D3 in three Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subjects. A,A,A at Advanced Highers (or A,A at Advanced Higher and A,A,A at Higher).Successful completion of the WBQ Advanced Skills Challenge Certificate plus 2 GCE A Levels at grades AAA. A humanities subject required. French required for French pathway. Spanish required for Spanish pathway.In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree programmes.The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications and test providers can be found on our English language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International Education.UCL - London's Global University - is the ideal environment in which to study a comparative literature degree.This programme offers the opportunity to study one or two modern languages to an advanced level, and incorporates an engagement with literature written in different cultural contexts.The year abroad will give you a deeper understanding of a modern foreign language and its variants.Comparative literature modules in years one, two and four will explore the reception, circulation and translation of texts across different periods and cultures.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally valued at 0.5 or 1.0 credits, adding up to a total of 4.0 credits for the year. Modules are assessed in the academic year in which they are taken. The balance of compulsory and optional modules varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0 credit is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit Transfer System (ECTS).In years one and two you will take two culture-specific compulsory modules in the department of your choice, either in SELCS or in SSEES. You will also study language and literature modules in one foreign language - selected prior to enrolment - either at beginner’s level or at more advanced post-A level alongside students taking modern languages degrees.You will also attend compulsory modules in comparative literature and select two from a wide range of options.The third year is spent abroad where your foreign language of choice is spoken. At least 50% of the subjects studied abroad must be in the area of literary and cultural studies. You may also study a second language subject to the host university's permission.In the final year you will continue studying either your first foreign language or a different foreign language (which may be the one you began studying abroad) at an advanced level, together with comparative literary elective modules. A dissertation is compulsory.An indicative guide to the structure of this programme, year by year.
                                                                Cultural Encounters in World LiteratureHow to Read Texts
                                                                You will select at least 1.0 credit from a list of comparative literature modules. All texts will be available in English or in English translation, as appropriate, but may also be read in the original language.

You will also select 1.0 credit of language modules and 1.0 credit of language-specific literature modules focusing on the close analysis of literary texts in a language other than English.
                                                                Imitation, Invention, AuthorshipWord, Image, Sound
                                                                You will select at least 1.0 credit from a list of comparative and literary intermediate modules taught in SELCS, SSEES, and Greek & Latin. All texts will be available in English or in English translation, as appropriate, but may also be read in the original language.  You will also select 1.0 credit of language modules and 1.0 credit of language-specific literature modules focusing on the close analysis of literary texts in a language other than English.
                                                                Students spend their third year in a country where their foreign language of choice is spoken. At least half of the modules taken abroad must be in literary and cultural studies. Students may also study a second language, where permitted by the host university.Whether they undertake an internship or a university placement, students on their year abroad will engage in guided academic work and critical reflections so as to make the most of their cultural and linguistic immersion.For further information please visit the SELCS year abroad website.
                                                                Dissertation
                                                                You will select at least 1.0 credit from available comparative and literary advanced modules. All texts will be available in English or in English translation, as appropriate, but may also be read in the original language.

You will also select 1.0 credit of language modules and at least 1.0 credit of language-specific literature modules focusing on the close analysis of literary texts in a language other than English, and on their wider cultural context.You will experience a wide range of learning opportunities, including lectures, seminars, tutorials, interactive groups and multimedia projects. Core modules will be taken together with all Comparative Literature students in your year. Optional modules will be taught by specialist staff from across UCL and will provide you with an opportunity to learn alongside students on other programmes.You will be assessed by written examination and essay. Project work and a dissertation will contribute to your overall assessment. You will be required to give presentations, work on group projects and multimedia projects and actively participate in class discussion.Detailed course descriptions are available on the department website: Comparative Literature with a Year Abroad BA.On graduation you will have gained breadth of knowledge, cultural awareness, writing skills, and familiarity with advanced textual analysis. You will have a detailed and effective understanding of at least one language other than English and will be able to work flexibly and creatively across cultures and in a range of fields.The first cohort of students admitted to the Comparative Literature with Year Abroad BA are due to graduate after 2019. Please see first destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) from School of European Languages and Culture programmes at UCL for a selection of representative careers.Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.Full details of UCL's tuition fees, tuition fee policy and potential increases to fees can be found on the UCL Students website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Your personal statement is of great importance. We expect the fullest possible account of your literary interests, including extracurricular readings. We want you to reflect on your familiarity with different cultures and on your ability to think critically and creatively across languages and cultures. We particularly welcome applicants with a good knowledge of at least one language other than English.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.
                                        Application deadline:
                                        15 January 2018                    
                                    We may interview candidates by telephone to assess linguistic ability (if stated), cultural awareness and intellectual potential. If you meet our entry criteria and show the required level of motivation, we will invite you to an offer-holder Open Day, where you will meet members of academic staff.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.
                                        European Languages, Culture and Society
                                    
                                        Faculty of Arts & Humanities
                                    
                                        School of European Languages, Culture and Society
                                    
				    Dutch
				    SELCS
				This four-year programme focuses on the language, culture and history of the Netherlands and Flanders. Students start learning Dutch from scratch and graduate as fluent and interculturally competent speakers of this global language.For entry requirements with other UK qualifications accepted by UCL, choose your qualification from the list below:Not acceptable for entrance to this programmePass in Access to HE Diploma, with a minimum of 28 credits awarded with Merit in the Level 3 units.D3,M1,M1 in three Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subjects. Foreign Language preferred. ABB at Advanced Highers (or AB at Advanced Higher and BBB at Higher).  Foreign Language preferred. Successful completion of the WBQ Advanced Skills Challenge Certificate plus 2 GCE A-Levels at grades ABB. Foreign language preferred. In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree programmes.The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications and test providers can be found on our English language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International Education.No previous knowledge of Dutch is required, as you will receive intensive language training in the first two years if you start the subject from scratch. You may also start the programme as a more advanced speaker of Dutch.You can go on summer language courses after the first year and will spend the third year of study in the Netherlands or Flanders (the northern part of Belgium). You will benefit from the extensive contacts the department has with Dutch and Belgian universities including Amsterdam, Utrecht and Antwerp.You will study in a small, friendly department. Our high staff to student ratio is unusual in higher education.You will have access to one of the most comprehensive Dutch libraries in the English-speaking world, including our collection of Dutch and Belgian films and multimedia learning resources.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally valued at 0.5 or 1.0 credits, adding up to a total of 4.0 credits for the year. Modules are assessed in the academic year in which they are taken. The balance of compulsory and optional modules varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0 credit is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit Transfer System (ECTS).The Dutch BA is a four-year, single-subject programme. Each year, students take a total of four course units. The intensive language module develops practical language skills while the cultural studies modules focus on issues of identities and communities, as well as on ways of investigating contemporary culture. Aside from core modules, you can choose options in literature, history and sociolinguistics.You will also take modules from the UCL School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS). This will allow you to study subjects such as literature, film, linguistics and history and focus on broad cultural movements, issues and approaches from an interdisciplinary perspective.The third year of study is spent in the Netherlands or Belgium, during which you may study at a Dutch or Belgian university, teach as a language assistant, or work on placement in a field related to your studies or intended career.An indicative guide to the structure of this programme, year by year.
                                                                Dutch language I
                                                                You will select modules from a wide range of options. Options may include:Born out of Rebellion: The Netherlands from the Dutch Revolt to the Eve of World War IModern Dutch Literary TextsYou will also choose interdepartmental modules from a wide range offered by SELCS. Options may include the study of linguistics, history and film.
                                                                Dutch Language II
                                                                You will select modules from a wide range of options. Options may include:At the Crossroads Of Europe: Belgium, Netherlands, Luxembourg in the 20th and 21st CenturiesMulticulturalism and Identity20th Century Dutch Literature: ThemesYou will also choose interdepartmental modules offered by SELCS.
                                                                You will choose a first- and second-choice university (or two destinations for split-language students). Allocations are made according to preference, the number of spaces available at each university and demand for those spaces, with the final decider being your average year one mark achieved on SELCS modules. Students allocated to destinations within the EU are eligible for the Erasmus+ Mobility Grant. While students will be advised by their host universities on how to apply for accommodation, UCL also puts students in contact with returning students, who can provide help and tips with respect to living arrangements. Students must study in the target language.
                                                                For further information on the year abroad, including destination options, please visit the SELCS year abroad websiteNote: in lieu of a university placement, students can do a work placement abroad, provided the placement is arranged and approved by the end of April in the preceding academic year. Students may also apply for British Council language assistantships.For general information about the year abroad please visit UCL Study Abroad for further details.
                                                                Dutch Language III
                                                                You will select modules from a wide range of options. Options may include:ELCS Advanced Level modulesNomadic LiteratureProject in DutchWe teach Dutch using modern communicative methods to develop fluency, accuracy and an understanding of stylistic issues. Literature, history, linguistics and cultural studies are taught through a mixture of seminars, group work, web-based courses and tutorials. You will be able to become involved with VirtualDutch, a collaborative teaching network between UCL, Cambridge, Sheffield and Nottingham Universities.Modules are assessed by various methods: written and oral/aural examinations, essays, presentations and project work.Detailed course descriptions are available on the department website: Dutch BA.A substantial number of our graduates use their language skills in a variety of contexts, such as public relations (often for multinational companies, many of which have Dutch origins), insurance, banking, political and cultural institutions, or teaching and translating. Some graduates go on to Master's or PhD programmes.There is significant and growing demand for Dutch-speaking graduates, as evidenced by the regular requests the department receives from employers. In the English-speaking context, a university graduate with a good command of Dutch is rare, giving the graduate a major and distinguishing asset.Belgium and the Netherlands belong to the world's most advanced manufacturing and trading areas and are among Britain's largest trading partners. They house the headquarters of numerous multinational companies, the political heart of the European Union and NATO. Dutch has 23 million speakers worldwide and Afrikaans, closely related to Dutch, has 17 million.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.Full details of UCL's tuition fees, tuition fee policy and potential increases to fees can be found on the UCL Students website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.You are able to take this programme without any previous knowledge of Dutch. However, the degree does require an interest in languages and a proven ability in language learning (see our entry requirements). We will take into account your academic performance and educational background, but also place great importance on your personal statement, your motivation to study Dutch, and your references.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.
                                        Application deadline:
                                        15 January 2018                    
                                    If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation make you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, we will invite you to a post-offer open day. There, you can experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.
                                        European Languages, Culture and Society
                                    
                                        Faculty of Arts & Humanities
                                    
                                        School of European Languages, Culture and Society
                                    
                                     
				    Dutch
				    SELCS
				This distinctive and highly flexible programme provides enormous scope for you to customise your degree according to your interest in linguistics, film, literature and history. To this is added the study of two languages, with the possibility of changing language after the first year.For entry requirements with other UK qualifications accepted by UCL, choose your qualification from the list below:Not acceptable for entrance to this programmePass in Access to HE Diploma, with a minimum of 18 credits awarded with Distinction in the Level 3 units, the remainder of the Level 3 units awarded with Merit.D3,D3,M1 in three Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subjects. Foreign Language required, to include the following if studied as the main language: French, Ancient Greek, Latin or Spanish grade D3.ABB at Advanced Highers (or AB at Advanced Higher and BBB at Higher). Foreign Language preferred at Advanced Higher. Successful completion of the WBQ Advanced Skills Challenge Certificate plus 2 GCE A-Levels at grades AAB. Foreign language required to include the following if studied as the main language: Ancient Greek, French, Latin or Spanish grade A.In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree programmes.The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications and test providers can be found on our English language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International Education.Youl will be able to choose from the exceptional range of languages taught at UCL, including many of the less frequently spoken languages of Europe and beyond. You will spend a year abroad in a country where your main language is spoken.Language learning takes place in small groups with research-active teachers, many of whom are native speakers. Your learning will be well supported by the excellent facilities of the UCL Centre for Languages & International Education.You will benefit from the outstanding specialist library resources and the enormous range of cultural experiences—such as exhibitions, film festivals, and concerts—that London has to offer.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally valued at 0.5 or 1.0 credits, adding up to a total of 4.0 credits for the year. Modules are assessed in the academic year in which they are taken. The balance of compulsory and optional modules varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0 credit is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit Transfer System (ECTS).Year one mainly comprises core language and culture modules, providing a foundation for further study. You will also choose a main and a second language. In years one, two and four you also choose optional modules from a wide range offered by both your chosen language departments and the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) (e.g. film, history, literature and linguistics courses).You will spend your third year abroad in an academic placement in a country where your main language is spoken.In your final year at UCL you will continue with your language studies either in both your languages, or concentrate on your main language only. You will select cultural modules in fields of your choice.You will initially choose two languages (one as a 'major' language, the other as a 'minor' language) from the following wide range of languages taught at UCL:Ancient Greek; Arabic (may only be studied as a minor language); Danish; Dutch; French (beginners French may only be studied as a minor language); German; Hebrew; Icelandic; Italian; Latin; Norwegian; Russian; Spanish (beginners Spanish may only be studied as a minor language); Swedish; Portuguese; a central or eastern European language (Bulgarian, Czech, Finnish, Hungarian, Polish, Romanian, Serbian/Croatian, Slovak, Ukrainian).Please note: applicants who wish to combine Latin and Ancient Greek, Latin and Arabic or Ancient Greek and Arabic should contact selcs.admissions@ucl.ac.uk before applying as these combinations are not usually available.Some language courses including Arabic and beginners French and Spanish are taught in the Centre for Langagues and International Education (CLIE).Areas of cultural study offered include:history; film studies; linguistics; literary studies; translation.This degree allows great flexibility especially in the final year. You can continue studying your languages and follow language-specific content modules; take content modules  within one of your departments or SELCS; drop your second language in your final year to pursue a greater number of content modules; or apply to outside options.In the past students have been allowed to take modules in anthropology, art history and journalism in other departments and London institutions. Approval for outside options is granted on a case-by-case basis and with permission by the relevant provider. Securing a place on an outside course is the responsibility of the student.An indicative guide to the structure of this programme, year by year.
                                                                You will study modules in both your main language and a second language. You will also study the Language, Culture and Representation core module.
                                                                You will select a cultural or linguistic module from your relevant main language department. You will also choose an interdepartmental module offered by SELCS. Options may include the study of linguistics, film and history.
                                                                You will study modules in both your main language and a second language (with the possibility of changing your main and second language, subject to approval).
                                                                You will select a cultural or linguistic module in your relevant main language department, and either: Three ELCS intermediate-level modules, or European Culture andTwo ELCS intermediate-level modules,orTwo ELCS intermediate-level modules andAn outside option or cultural or linguistic module in your relevant minor language department, orEuropean Cultures, One ELCS intermediate-level module andOne outside option or cultural or linguistic module in your minor language department.
                                                                You will spend a year at a university in a country where your main language is spoken. You will complete any assessment required by that host university. Students taking Ancient Greek or Latin as a major language normally spend their year abroad in the country of their minor languages but while overseas must study Ancient Greek or Latin.Permission may be given to spend one semester in a British Council Assistantship (although this is subject to approval).You can find a list of desintations for the year abroad on the SELCS year abroad website. 
                                                                You will study modules in your main language (and second language, where possible).
                                                                Modules from a selection of cultural/linguistic options from your second language or options outside of SELCS (subject to approval)Dissertation in Language and CultureELCS advanced-level modulesThis programme and the first-year core module are run by the Language and Culture BA Programme Tutor. Languages are taught intensively, and you will be trained in speaking, reading, writing and translating in your target languages. Students on this programme develop their skills in both languages and interdisciplinary and cultural studies. Language modules are normally assessed by coursework and written and oral examinations. Other modules are normally assessed through a combination of written coursework and examinations.Detailed course descriptions are available on the department website: Language and Culture BA.On graduation from this programme you can expect to have excellent oral and written language skills and breadth and depth of cultural knowledge. This degree cultivates numerous transferable skills, including the ability to organise your time and work independently, think critically, and analyse and present information.Graduates from the Language and Culture BA and related programmes have entered a wide range of professions including: journalism, the civil service, interpreting and translating, publishing, advertising, teaching, the media and the arts. A demand exists for graduates proficient in several languages, especially in the less commonly taught European languages.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.Full details of UCL's tuition fees, tuition fee policy and potential increases to fees can be found on the UCL Students website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.In assessing your application we are looking for evidence of your interest in and aptitude for language learning, as well as your interest in literature, film, art and other cultural subjects. Please state your chosen main language, and, if decided, your second language in the 'further details' section of the UCAS form.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.
                                        Application deadline:
                                        15 January 2018                    
                                    If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation make you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day where you can experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.
                                        European Languages, Culture and Society
                                    
                                        Faculty of Arts & Humanities
                                    
                                        School of European Languages, Culture and Society
                                    
				    Dutch
				    SELCS
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one that is new to you), together with another discipline, such as philosophy, history of art, Jewish studies or management studies. You will also spend a year abroad.For entry requirements with other UK qualifications accepted by UCL, choose your qualification from the list below:Not acceptable for entrance to this programmePass in Access to HE Diploma, with between 28 credits awarded with Merit and a minimum of 23 credits awarded with Distinction in the Level 3 units, the remainder of the Level 3 units awarded with Merit.D3,D3,D3 - D3,M1,M1 in three Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subjects.  The following is required if part of the combination: English Literature or English Language & Literature grade D3; French grade D3; German grade M1; Latin grade D3; Spanish grade D3.  For all other combinations a foreign language is preferred.AAA-ABB at Advanced Highers (or AA at Advanced Higher and AAA at Higher - AB at Advanced Higher and BBB at Higher).  The following is required at Advanced Higher if part of the combination: English Literature or English Language & Literature grade A; French grade A; German grade B; Latin grade A; Spanish grade A.  For all other combinations a foreign language is preferred.Depending on subject combination: Successful completion of the WBQ Advanced Skills Challenge Certificate plus 2 GCE A-Levels at grades AAA or Successful completion of the WBQ Advanced Skills Challenge Certificate plus 2 GCE A-Levels at grades ABB. Please see A Levels for subject requirements.In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree programmes.The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications and test providers can be found on our English language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International Education.UCL provides an ideal environment for language study; we offer an enormous range of languages and state-of-the-art facilities, including a well-equipped language learning suite.The Centre for Excellence in Teaching and Learning - Languages of the Wider World, run by UCL and SOAS, brings together the expertise of a wide range of language specialists.UCL has a large international population, and you will have countless opportunities to practise and speak your chosen languages with native speakers and learn about the associated culture and society.Our location in a cosmopolitan city provides access to frequent and varied cultural events, a huge range of museums, specialist libraries and bookshops, theatres, cinemas, cuisines and cultural societies.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally valued at 0.5 or 1.0 credits, adding up to a total of 4.0 credits for the year. Modules are assessed in the academic year in which they are taken. The balance of compulsory and optional modules varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0 credit is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit Transfer System (ECTS).In your first, second and final years you will take modules in your chosen language and the literature, culture, history and linguistics related to it, as well as modules in your other discipline. You may also take modules offered by the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS), which offer an interdisciplinary perspective, drawing on the full range of specialisms within the school.Combinations of a language 'and' another discipline are studied on a 50/50 ratio whereas combinations 'with' are studied on a 75/25 ratio.Year three is spent abroad in a country where your chosen language is spoken, studying at a university with which UCL has an exchange agreement, working as a British Council language assistant or doing a work placement. We expect graduates to achieve the same linguistic competence whether or not they started from scratch.The following combinations of subjects may be studied together (subject to entry requirements):Dutch and English, History of Art, Latin, Philosophy or Management Studies   Dutch with Management Studies or Film StudiesFrench and English, Philosophy, Latin or History of ArtFrench with Film StudiesGerman and English, Philosophy, Latin, History of Art or Jewish StudiesGerman with Management Studies or Film StudiesItalian and History of Art, Latin, Philosophy, Jewish Studies or Management StudiesItalian with Film StudiesScandinavian Studies and English, Philosophy, Latin or History of ArtScandinavian Studies with Management Studies or Film StudiesSpanish and History of Art, Philosophy or LatinSpanish with Management Studies or Film StudiesHebrew 'and' all of the above disciplines is also available as part of the Modern Language Plus BA.Each combination has different entry criteria, ranging from AAA to ABB.The title of the final degree awarded on completion will reflect whichever combination you choose.An indicative guide to the structure of this programme, year by year.
                                                                Modules in your chosen languageModules in your second disciplineLiterature, culture, history and linguistics modules related to your chosen languageExact modules will depend on your combination. You will need to look at both departmental websites to see the modules for each part of your degree.
                                                                Modules in your chosen languageModules in your second disciplineLiterature, culture, history and linguistics modules related to your chosen language
                                                                Year abroad in the country where your chosen language is spoken.Students currently complete any assessment required by a host university (if participating in a university exchange), or a British Council assistantship or work placement abroad.Whether they undertake an internship or a university placement, students on their year abroad will engage in guided academic work and critical reflections so as to make the most of their cultural and linguistic immersion.For further information please visit the SELCS year abroad website.
                                                                Advanced language and other modules in your chosen fields.Your language classes focus on developing active skills of speaking, listening, writing and reading through a variety of methods and media. You will be taught through lectures and seminars, as well as undertaking web-based study and group work.Modules are assessed by a mixture of written and oral examinations, essays and other forms of coursework.Detailed course descriptions are available on the department website: Modern Language Plus BA.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.Full details of UCL's tuition fees, tuition fee policy and potential increases to fees can be found on the UCL Students website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of lanugage/subject they wish to be considered for. Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.
                                        Application deadline:
                                        15 January 2018                    
                                    If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.
                                        European Languages, Culture and Society
                                    
                                        Faculty of Arts & Humanities
                                    
                                        School of European Languages, Culture and Society
                                    
				    Dutch
				    SELCS
				The four-year Modern Languages BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, with over 300 possible modern language combinations. You may choose from more traditional combinations, such as Italian and German, or explore more unusual choices such as Dutch and Hungarian. You will also spend your Year Abroad in two different countries.For entry requirements with other UK qualifications accepted by UCL, choose your qualification from the list below:Not acceptable for entrance to this programmePass in Access to HE Diploma, with between 28 credits awarded with Merit and a minimum of 23 credits awarded with Distinction in the Level 3 units, the remainder of the Level 3 units awarded with Merit.D3,D3,M1 - D3,M1,M1 in three Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subjects. The following is required if part of the combination: French grade D3; German grade M1; Spanish grade D3. For all other combinations an A level or equivalent in one of your chosen languages is required.AAB-ABB at Advanced Highers (or AA at Advanced Higher and BBB at Higher - AB at Advanced Higher and BBB at Higher). The following is required if part of the combination: French grade A; Spanish grade A. For all other combinations an A level or equivalent in one of your chosen languages is required.Successful completion of the WBQ Advanced Skills Challenge Certificate plus 2 GCE A-Levels at grades AAB to ABB depending on subject combination.  The following is required if part of the combination: French grade A; Spanish grade A. For all other combinations an A level or equivalent in one of your chosen languages is required.In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree programmes.The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications and test providers can be found on our English language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International Education.UCL provides an ideal environment for language study. We offer an enormous range of languages and state-of-the-art facilities, including a well-equipped language learning suite.The Centre for Excellence in Teaching and Learning Languages of the Wider World, run by UCL and SOAS, brings together the expertise of a wide range of language specialists.UCL has a very international population, meaning you will have countless opportunities to practise and speak your chosen languages and learn about the associated cultures and societies. Our location in a cosmopolitan city provides access to frequent and varied cultural events, a huge range of museums, galleries, specialist libraries and bookshops, theatres, cinemas, cuisines and cultural societies.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally valued at 0.5 or 1.0 credits, adding up to a total of 4.0 credits for the year. Modules are assessed in the academic year in which they are taken. The balance of compulsory and optional modules varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0 credit is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit Transfer System (ECTS).In your first, second and final years you will take language modules in your chosen languages, as well as modules in the literature, culture, history and linguistics related to them. You may also take interdisciplinary modules offered by the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS). This will allow you to study literature, film, art and culture from an interdisciplinary perspective, focus on broad cultural movements, issues and approaches, and draw on the full range of specialisms within the school.You may choose two languages that you have studied previously, or take a language at beginner's level alongside one you already know. It is possible to study two SSEES languages from scratch (including Russian). Please refer to the SELCS website for more details Students spend their third year abroad in an academic placement, split between two countries where your chosen languages are spoken. We expect graduates to achieve the same linguistic competence regardless of whether they started a language from scratch or had previous knowledge of it.Any two of the following languages may be combined (subject to entry requirements and availability):Dutch, French, German, Hebrew, Italian, Portuguese, Russian, Scandinavian (one of: Danish, Icelandic, Norwegian, Swedish), Spanish, East European* (two of: Bulgarian, Czech, Finnish, Hungarian, Polish, Romanian, Serbian/Croatian, Slovak, Ukrainian), Yiddish.(* languages are taught at the School of Slavonic & East European Studies - SSEES).Importantly, you should note that the final degree awarded to you on completion will reflect whichever combination you choose, for example French and Italian BA, Dutch and German BA, Russian and Yiddish BA.An indicative guide to the structure of this programme, year by year.
                                                                Modules in your chosen languagesLiterature, culture, history and linguistics modules related to your chosen languages
                                                                You will also choose an interdepartmental module offered by the School of European Language, Culture & Society. Options may include, for example, the study of linguistics, film or history.
                                                                Modules in your chosen languagesLiterature, culture, history and linguistics modules related to your chosen languages
                                                                You will also choose an interdepartmental module offered by the School of European Language, Culture & Society. Options may include, for example, the study of linguistics, film or history.
                                                                The year abroad is split between two countries where your chosen languages are spoken. You can participate in a university exchange with one of our prestigious partner universities, undertake a work placement abroad or a combination of the two (subject to approval).  Whether they undertake an internship or a university placement, students on their year abroad will engage in guided academic work and critical reflections so as to make the most of their cultural and linguistic immersion.For further information on the year abroad please visit the SELCS year abroad website.
                                                                Advanced language and other modules in your chosen fields.Your language classes focus on developing the active skills of speaking, listening, writing and reading through a variety of methods and media. You will be taught through a combination of lectures and seminars, as well as undertaking web-based study and group work.Modules are assessed by a mixture of written and oral examinations, essays and other forms of coursework.Detailed course descriptions are available on the department website: Modern Languages BA.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates. We seek to embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Popular career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching, while others continue with graduate training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.Full details of UCL's tuition fees, tuition fee policy and potential increases to fees can be found on the UCL Students website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the languages you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the languages (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country or countries in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.
                                        Application deadline:
                                        15 January 2018                    
                                    If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation make you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day. There, you will experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Languages BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of languages they wish to be considered for. Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level, therefore an A level or equivalent is required for these languages. For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.
                                        European Languages, Culture and Society
                                    
                                        Faculty of Arts & Humanities
                                    
                                        School of European Languages, Culture and Society
                                    
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Ile de ReyThe department, part of UCL's School of European Languages, Culture & Society, is at the cutting edge of current debate in French literature, culture, politics and film and is consistently ranked among the best in the world.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Department Offices:Room 135, First Floor, Foster CourtRoom 137, First Floor, Foster CourtTelephone: +44 (0)20 7679 3083 +44 (0)20 3108 1090 Email: french.office@ucl.ac.ukThird Floor, 1 - 4 Malet Place, off Torrington Place, London, WC1E 6BT(Bloomsbury Campus - see UCL maps) 
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UCL has a renowned tradition in both teaching and research in  French studies dating back to the foundation of the College in 1826 and continuing to  the present day. UCL was the first university in the country to create a chair  of French and this was one of the first chairs of any modern language to be  established anywhere in the world. The department is at the cutting edge of current debates  in
French literature, culture, politics and film and is consistently ranked
 among the best in the world.French is the language of many cultures in Europe. After the Norman Conquest it was the language of  the rulers of England. Ever since, it has held pride of place as one of  the most important modern foreign languages for English speakers. It  was, and is, valued highly throughout the world as a vehicle for  literature, thought, diplomacy, certain sciences and commerce. A significant proportion of the delegates to the United  Nations express themselves in French.The literature and cinema which  originate from the francophone countries of the American, African and  Asian continents are among the most fascinating being created today.  Closer to home, European integration, with its developing opportunities  for employment, makes a thorough knowledge of the language, institutions and culture of France and francophone countries particularly urgent and rewarding.All undergraduate SELCS students on a four-year degree, in any department, spend their Year 3 abroad. Affiliate
 students (those coming from other institutions to spend a period of 
study at UCL) will study alongside UCL and international students,
benefiting from UCL's world-class teaching system and renowned 
academics. Students from other UK universities and members of the public are welcome 
to study individual undergraduate and postgraduate modules from any of 
the SELCS departments. 
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UCL has a renowned tradition in both teaching and research in  French studies dating back to the foundation of the College in 1826 and continuing to  the present day. UCL was the first university in the country to create a chair  of French and this was one of the first chairs of any modern language to be  established anywhere in the world. The department is at the cutting edge of current debates  in
French literature, culture, politics and film and is consistently ranked
 among the best in the world.French is the language of many cultures in Europe. After the Norman Conquest it was the language of  the rulers of England. Ever since, it has held pride of place as one of  the most important modern foreign languages for English speakers. It  was, and is, valued highly throughout the world as a vehicle for  literature, thought, diplomacy, certain sciences and commerce. A significant proportion of the delegates to the United  Nations express themselves in French.The literature and cinema which  originate from the francophone countries of the American, African and  Asian continents are among the most fascinating being created today.  Closer to home, European integration, with its developing opportunities  for employment, makes a thorough knowledge of the language, institutions and culture of France and francophone countries particularly urgent and rewarding.All undergraduate SELCS students on a four-year degree, in any department, spend their Year 3 abroad. Affiliate
 students (those coming from other institutions to spend a period of 
study at UCL) will study alongside UCL and international students,
benefiting from UCL's world-class teaching system and renowned 
academics. Students from other UK universities and members of the public are welcome 
to study individual undergraduate and postgraduate modules from any of 
the SELCS departments. 
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The department’s research strategy is to promote excellence in 
research over the range of what is a rapidly developing discipline. This 
involves challenging the boundaries of French Studies and contributing to its 
remapping. Interdisciplinarity is crucial to the department’s overall profile; 
colleagues are committed to the idea that research areas central to the subject 
currently - such as post-colonialism, ethics, literary theory, gender theory, 
problems of historical context and perception, etc - are inherently mobile. 
Research has thus developed in response to issues, areas and texts of scholarly, 
intellectual or moral concern, and has developed methodologies appropriate to 
the projects in 
hand.Periods of French culture covered range from the medieval to the contemporary. Issues engaged with 
include the role and responsibilities of literary or textual criticism; 
representations of identity in the reading process; literary identity; literary 
and historical biography; Humanism; postcolonialism and globalization; gender 
and sexual difference; translation; the relation of history to reading in the 
situation of texts; the ethics of reading; relations of the visual to the 
verbal; film and video; the contemporary novel; contemporary 
poetry. Approaches adopted by people in 
the department include psychoanalysis; gender theory and queer theory; 
anthropology; theology; the sociology of Bourdieu; the history of ideas; 
Foucauldian history; cultural studies; postcolonial theory. An overriding 
concern is with the reading process, its analytical range and critical power. In 
this, the department testifies to its twin foundations in literary scholarship 
and textual exploration.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This scholarship is open to mature undergraduate (those who were aged 21 or over when they first registered at UCL.) An award is made on the basis of need and dedication to learning. Preference may be given to applicants over the age of 35. Applicants should be going into year 2 or the final year in the session following their application.This scholarship is awarded to finalists planning to undertake study at MA level, on the basis of academic merit. Applications should be sent to the Head of the French Department by mid-May. Candidates for an MA should include details of their academic record and the research work they intend to pursue (one page).Criteria for eligibility: Most deserving undergraduate students in the College taking less than half of their programme in French – 1.5 course units (cu) or less in any one year, e.g. students doing: Criteria for eligibility: An undergraduate in the French Department.The number of prizes depends on the number of undergraduate students with the department for the academic session. Criteria for eligibility: Year One or Year Two students – for work for the session considered of good Honours standard.Funding information can also be found on the following pages:
				    German
				    SELCS
				Banner Head ImageThe Department of German at UCL is the oldest in the UK. Founded in 1828, the department is now an interdisciplinary centre of excellence,
offering in-depth study of German language and
linguistics, literature, thought, history, politics,
theory and film. Part of the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS), the department is rated as one of the best in the world.Register your interest in studying at SELCS and 
receive important information about open days, applications, and more.
 

   Register your interest

 

				    German
				    SELCS
				Register your interest in studying at SELCS and 
receive important information about open days, applications, and more.
 

   Register your interest

 

				    German
				    SELCS
				UCL Department of GermanGower Street LondonWC1E 6BT17 Gordon Square, London, WC1H 0AT(Bloomsbury Campus - see UCL maps) Register your interest in studying at SELCS and 
receive important information about open days, applications, and more.
 

   Register your interest

 

				    German
				    SELCS
				The UCLU German Society was founded in 2004 by Immanuel Wolf
with the intent “to further integrate the department, as well as promote
the numerous events relating to German culture taking place in London”.
The current president for 2016-17 is Adam Kousgaard.The Society has since grown to be one of UCLU’s largest and
most active student societies on campus, boasting more than 350 members
that take part in a variety of more than 100 highly popular events throughout
the year. As the largest university in London and one of the leading
academic institutions worldwide, UCL attracts some of the best students from German-speaking
countries; some of them are starting their university experience or
visiting for their Erasmus year, others matriculating in Masters Degrees,
continuing their studies with a PhD or researching with some of the best
scholars in the world. For these students, the German Society offers
the opportunity to keep in touch with their native country and provides a
platform for academic and social exchange. The German Society prides itself in being a cultural society
with a varied and exciting programme of events across the year.The Society offers German language classes taught by
students at no additional cost to membership. These are taught by native or
near-native speakers at six different levels for those interested in learning German.
These different levels are roughly aligned to the Common European Framework of
Reference for Languages, beginning at “Lower Beginners” for A1 learners, up to
“Conversational” for C2 learnersA monthly Stammtisch
at the nearby Herman ze German on Charlotte Street is organised to bring native
speakers and learners of German together around some traditional German food
and beer. There is also a monthly Sunday brunch at the German bakery, Brot
Kultur, on Tottenham Court Road, bringing students together around some Brötchen and Kaffee und Kuchen. Other social events include regular tasting events, such as
Ritter Sport Chocolate, a Flammkuchen
tasting and opportunities to sample the diverse range of German beer and German
wine. The Society offers an annual cultural trip to Berlin for a
small group of students from any department. Here in London, the Society also organises
careers events and workshops, with a focus on companies that are either German
or allow for potential posts in German-speaking countries. Together with the
Deutscher Akademischer Austausch Dienst (DAAD), a German CV workshop has been
running for the past five years, and the Society works with its sponsors to
host networking events for German native- or near-native speakers, including
women-only events.  Since 2014, the German Society has held its an annual forum
for discussion and interaction amongst students, with a focus on the United
Kingdom and Germany. The Summit attracts a wide variety of speakers in the
fields of economics, politics and culture to discuss that year’s topic. Keynote
speakers include Angus Robertson (2017), Sir Peter Torry (2017), Holger
Schmiedling (2016), Steffen Kampeter MdB (2015), Harald Schmidt (2015), and
Peer Steinbrück MdB (2014).  2017: Anglo-German Relations in the Wake of the European
Crisis
2016: Opportunities for Europe
2015: Germany and its Role in Europe, 25 Years After Reunification
2014: Challenges for and in EuropeA German-language play has been organised and performed by
students, with a wide range of productions being chosen over the past few
years. This is an opportunity open to all German speakers at any level. 2017: Top Dogs
(Urs Widmer)
2016: Lulu (adapation of Wedekind’s Erdgeist and Die Büsche der Pandora). 2015: Reigen (Arthur Schnitzler)

2014: Tropfen auf heiße Steine (Rainer
Werner Fassbinder)

2013: Der Besuch der alten Dame (Friedrich
Dürrenmatt)President: Adam Kousgaard 
Vice-President: Chloë Meyronnet Treasurer: Matthew Chew General Secretary: Abigail Collier Director of Social Events: Ravina Shah Director of Academic Events: Christoph Ulshoefer Language Classes Co-Ordinator: Martin Tan German Summit Executive: Antonia Wunnerlich Director of Marketing & Communications: Zhouyi Qian Director of Sponsorship: Raphael Eder First-Year Representatives: Anja Johnson and Jasmin Manetta----------------------------------------------------------------------Link to website: germansociety.co.uk Register your interest in studying at SELCS and 
receive important information about open days, applications, and more.
 

   Register your interest


				    German
				    SELCS
				Register your interest in studying at SELCS and 
receive important information about open days, applications, and more.
 

   Register your interest

 

				    German
				    SELCS
				Register your interest in studying at SELCS and 
receive important information about open days, applications, and more.
 

   Register your interest

 
Register your interest in studying at SELCS and 
receive important information about open days, applications, and more.
 

   Register your interest

 

				    German
				    SELCS
				The academic
                staff of the Department of German actively pursue a wide range
of                research interests, publishing articles and
                books on their specialist topics. The
                Department regularly organises an informal lecture series during
                which members of the Department present their latest research
                to each other, students and colleagues from other universities.Academic
                staff
                in the Department of German also participate in collective interdisciplinary
                and departmental research projects. Register your interest in studying at SELCS and 
receive important information about open days, applications, and more.
 

   Register your interest

 

				    German
				    SELCS
				This project will investigate two diametrically opposed stock types in
texts written during the run-up to both World Wars: the wicked and foul
‘foreigner’ (Frenchmen, ‘Bolsheviks’, Jews) in pre-war propaganda and
literature, and the German criminal as a harmless, even lovable eccentric (‘the
devil we know’) in criminology and literature. This juxtaposition can be read
as a ‘turning inward’ of conflict resolution skills, which focused on the
home-grown and fixable problem of crime, and a simultaneous exacerbation of
foreign conflicts through their portrayal as both unavoidable and intractable.This project is generously funded by the Leverhulme Trust for the period 2015-2018. Principal Investigator: Professor Susanne KordRegister your interest in studying at SELCS and 
receive important information about open days, applications, and more.
 

   Register your interest

 

				    German
				    SELCS
				The Martin Swales Library, located directly opposite the 
main office of the German Department (G7), is named after Martin Swales,
 Professor of German at UCL from 1976 until 2003, a great teacher and 
lover of literature who has inspired generations of students in our 
Department. The German Department gratefully acknowledges Professor Bruce
              Duncan, Dartmouth College (USA), for his kind permission to use.Register your interest in studying at SELCS and 
receive important information about open days, applications, and more.
 

   Register your interest

 

				    German
				    SELCS
				The Martin Swales Library, located directly opposite the 
main office of the German Department (G7), is named after Martin Swales,
 Professor of German at UCL from 1976 until 2003, a great teacher and 
lover of literature who has inspired generations of students in our 
Department. The journal holdings of the Martin Swales Library are 
located in the space before Room G6. Books should not be removed from 
the library. Course books and other literature are freely available for 
students' use in the Undergraduate Common Room. Please note that this document opens an Access database. 
Once the database has opened, you should be within the 'Forms' section 
and be able to see the Catalogue. Double-click to open it.  To search an Access database, either click on the 
binoculars in the toolbar, or use Ctrl. + F. Remember that you have to 
be in the correct data field for your search - so click in the 'Author' 
field if you're searching under Authors, for example.  Also, make sure you've selected 'Any Part of Field' in the Match part of the Find and Replace box. Please note that this document opens in an Excel 
spreadsheet. To search an Excel spreadsheet, use Ctrl+ F or use the grey
 buttons on each column - you will also be able to filter information 
this way. Register your interest in studying at SELCS and 
receive important information about open days, applications, and more.
 

   Register your interest

 

				    German
				    SELCS
				The Martin Swales Library, located directly opposite the 
main office of the German Department (G7), is named after Martin Swales,
 Professor of German at UCL from 1976 until 2003, a great teacher and 
lover of literature who has inspired generations of students in our 
Department. The journal holdings of the Martin Swales Library are 
located in the space before Room G6. Books should not be removed from 
the library. Course books and other literature are freely available for 
students' use in the Undergraduate Common Room. Please note that this document opens an Access database. 
Once the database has opened, you should be within the 'Forms' section 
and be able to see the Catalogue. Double-click to open it.  To search an Access database, either click on the 
binoculars in the toolbar, or use Ctrl. + F. Remember that you have to 
be in the correct data field for your search - so click in the 'Author' 
field if you're searching under Authors, for example.  Also, make sure you've selected 'Any Part of Field' in the Match part of the Find and Replace box. Please note that this document opens in an Excel 
spreadsheet. To search an Excel spreadsheet, use Ctrl+ F or use the grey
 buttons on each column - you will also be able to filter information 
this way. Register your interest in studying at SELCS and 
receive important information about open days, applications, and more.
 

   Register your interest

 

				    German
				    SELCS
				Register your interest in studying at SELCS and 
receive important information about open days, applications, and more.
 

   Register your interest

 

				    German
				    SELCS
				  For the attention of all UCL students of German, UG and PG:   We are fortunate enough to 
offer one travel and research bursary to Germany for the summer of 2017,
 to the value of £500. Applicants should submit an outline of a travel 
and research proposal (1,000-1,500 words) to Dr Geraldine Horan (g.horan@ucl.ac.uk) by Friday 19th of May; the successful candidate will be expected to write a report on returning to the UK to be submitted both to the German
department and the Quinault family. 2013-2014: Matthew Clark (BA European Social and Political Studies) - Travel Essay2014-2015: Tamiza Tudor (BA French and German) - tamiza-essay2014-15 2016-2016: Katie Abbott (BA French and German) - travel_essayRegister your interest in studying at SELCS and 
receive important information about open days, applications, and more.
 

   Register your interest

 

				    German
				    SELCS
				At the end of each academic year the German department gives out the following undergraduate prizes to honour student achievements during the past academic year:Register your interest in studying at SELCS and 
receive important information about open days, applications, and more.
 

   Register your interest

 

				    German
				    SELCS
				 The Department of German at UCL is one of the world's leading departments for the study of German
culture, history and language.From the fall of the Berlin Wall in
1989 back to the teachings of Luther, the music of Bach and Beethoven, the
writing of Goethe and Thomas Mann, and the theories of Marx and Nietzsche,
Germany and the German-speaking tradition have occupied a central place in
Europe and the world. As one of our students you will also be a part of UCL's School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS), and will have the opportunity to choose from  Undergraduate, Graduate Taught and Graduate Research Programmes that you can tailor to your interests of study. Find out more about your options for study, and the Department's specialisms using the links below. Whether you're here as an undergraduate or graduate degree student
or simply on your Junior Year Abroad, you could study a wide variety of
specializations: history, culture, film, social and political
theory, Austrian studies, literature from the Middle Ages to the present day,
and the practice and theory of translation and language acquisition.If you’re a multi-linguist, you can combine German with
another language (Dutch, French, Italian, Spanish, Bulgarian, Czech, Finnish,
Icelandic, Hungarian, Polish, Romanian, Russian, Serbian/Croatian, Slovak,
Ukrainian, Danish, Norwegian, Swedish, Hebrew or Yiddish). Or combine German
with English, Film Studies, History, History of Art, History and Philosophy of
Science, Jewish Studies, Management Studies, Latin, or Science Communication
and Policy.The teaching and research staff at the Department of German
at UCL are specialists in a wide range of fields and disciplines. The
department's strengths include medieval, early-modern and modern literature,
cultural studies, literary theory, Austrian studies, the practice and theory of
translation and language acquisition, modern German history and politics,
cultural, social and political theory, and film studies. All members of staff are prominent in their areas of expertise,
attracting large numbers of postgraduates, organising a variety of conferences
and seminars, and publishing a diverse array of articles, monographs and
textbooks. The department includes a Fellow of the British Academy,
the principal British historian of the German Democratic Republic, and
acknowledged experts on women's writing, especially drama, Austrian literature,
and feminist literary theory. Several scholarly journals, including Austrian Studies and the Publications of
the English Goethe Society, are or have recently been
co-edited from within the department.In the RAE 2008, UCL German
was tied for first place in percentage of research judged to be 'world leading'
and received the second highest rating overall. In 2004, the year UCL was styled The Sunday Times
University of the Year, the
German Department was declared the best in the UK in The Times Guide to
Higher Education. The department takes full advantage
of all the German occasions and facilities that London offers. London
is home to an unusually rich selection of private and public institutions,
government agencies, museums, libraries and research centres that deal with
matters pertaining to German culture. In previous years, students and
staff have mounted a variety of productions in UCL's Bloomsbury Theatre and in
the experimental Theatre Workshop, including three short plays by Hans Sachs,
Grass's Hochwasser, Brecht's Lux in Tenebris and Der kaukasische
Kreidekreis, Dürrenmatt's Der Besuch der alten Dame, and both parts
of Goethe's Faust. All undergraduate SELCS students on a four-year degree, in any department, spend their Year 3 abroad. Affiliate students (those coming from other institutions to spend a period of study at UCL) will study alongside UCL and international students,
benefiting from UCL's world-class teaching system and renowned academics. Students from other UK universities and members of the public are welcome 
to study individual undergraduate and postgraduate modules from any of 
the SELCS departments. Register your interest in studying at SELCS and 
receive important information about open days, applications, and more.
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				View of the Grand Canal from Rialto to Ca'Foscari - By Didier DescouensMany degree combinations and more.We offer Italian classes whatever your level....and read their experiences of studying at UCL....their exciting research makes for inspiring tuitionAnd apply!
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Third Floor, Foster Court, Malet Place, off Torrington Place, London, WC1E 6BT(Bloomsbury Campus - see UCL maps)
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				View of the Grand Canal from Rialto to Ca'Foscari - By Didier DescouensMade in Italy is a new series of evening courses
offering a uniquely comprehensive approach to learning the culture and history
of Italy.Since it started in 2015, our range of courses attracts adult
learners who wish to explore Italy’s cultural heritage and contemporary culture
through art, texts, literature and films.Joining our evening courses gives you access to the
world-renowned Italian department at UCL. Experts in the field will adapt and
share their research to make your learning experience profound and enjoyable at
the same time. 
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 From Cabiria to the Present: Key
Moments in Italian Cinema (Monday, 10 weeks in Term 3)   This
module will examine key moments and trends in Italian cinema from the early 20th century to the present day. The course will cover silent cinema, Neorealism, political films,
comedies and noir. It will look at the work of internationally famed directors
such as Roberto Rossellini, Luchino Visconti, Ettore Scola, Pietro Germi,
Bernardo Bertolucci, and Paolo Sorrentino. Module taught by Dr Cristina Massaccesi, Dr
Lucia Rinaldi and Dr Marta Niccolai
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 If you have no formal qualification in the subject of Medieval and
Renaissance studies but you have a strong interest and have pursued the subject
independently, attendance to two or more Made in Italy courses on Medieval and
Renaissance studies will allow you to apply for an MA  in Medieval Renaissance Studies.  Please check their entry requirements
under MA degree (Prospective students).     1) Introduction to Renaissance studies (Thursday,
10 weeks in Term 3) The module will cover the period of the 1500, in particular,
the debate between religion and astronomy with the controversial figure of
Galileo Galilei, the question of etiquette and morality through The Book of the Courtier by Baldassarre
di Castiglione, and great leaders, laws and arms discussed by Niccolò Machiavelli
in his famous The Prince. Module taught by Andrew Campbell. 2) The Renaissance genius (Tuesday, 10 weeks in Term 2) This unique module will explore the concept of ‘genius’
through the concept of the ideal Renaissance man and the classical concept of humanitas .  Are humans limitless in their capacity for
development? What lessons can we draw from the idea of universal education?
Through seminars, analyses of texts and images, the course will illustrate the
multifaceted reality of some of the greatest thinkers of the Renaissance and of
all times, namely, Leon Battista Alberti, Leonardo da Vinci and Michelangelo
Buonarroti.  Module taught by Dr Tiziana Provvidera. 3) Magicians and Philosophers in the Renaissance (Monday, 10 weeks in Term 2)   This unique module explores the notion of ‘magic’ within
some fundamental philosophical and historical issues relevant during the
Renaissance. The notion of Magic, the practice of prophecy and divination and
its condemnation by the Church, will be discussed through the works of Marsilio
Ficino, Giordano Bruno, Tommaso Campanella and Pico della Mirandola.Module taught by Dr Tiziana Provvidera.4) Living at the birth of the Renaissance, between
1350 and 1650(Wednesday, 10 weeks in Term 3) The Renaissance is traditionally considered to
be a moment of rebirth, but what was the experience of those living through the
period? This unique module will examine different perspectives on the
Renaissance, using literature and historical sources to build up a picture of
the transition from the late Middle Ages to the Renaissance. We will explore
the lives of those involved in printing, practising religion in confraternities
and convents, dealing with healthcare in hospitals and during epidemics, and debating
what the Italian language should look like in the Questione della Lingua.  Module taught by Dr Alexandra Lee.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				For further information regarding the course curriculum
please write to the convenor, Marta Niccolai, marta.niccolai@ucl.ac.uk and for
modules administration please contact the Italian Departmental office on 0207
6797784 or email: italian.office@ucl.ac.uk
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				  All classes take place between 6 and 8 pm and are located in the Italian department, 3rd floor, Foster Court  (Malet Place).    Magicians and Philosophers in the RenaissanceDay: Mondays from 6pm to 8pmDuration: 10 weeks, from January 8th 2018 to March 19th 2018Room: FC351  The Renaissance GeniusDay: Tuesdays from 6pm to 8pmDuration:  10 weeks, from January 9th 2018 to March 20th 2018Room: FC331  College Reading week: starts 12th February 2018 (no classes)From Cabiria to the present: key moments in Italian cinemaDay: Mondays from 6pm to 8pmDuration: 10 weeks, from 23rd April 2018 to 25th June 2018Room: FC351Living at the birth of the Renaissance, between 1350 and 1650Day: Wednesdays from 6pm to 8pmDuration: 10 weeks, from 25th of April to 27th of JuneRoom: FC351Introduction to Renaissance studies Day: Thursdays from 6m to 8pmDuration: 10 weeks, from 26th April 2018 to 28th June 2018Room: FC331
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				No formal entry qualification but a curiosity of Italy and
its culture is required. Basic knowledge of Italian can be beneficial but not
essential, should some handouts be in the original language.  Enrolment for each individual module is mandatory. We encourage you to enrol as early as possible by
completing the enrolment form and send it to the Made in Italy
convenor,  Dr Marta Niccolai at marta.niccolai@ucl.ac.uk.Module fee: £350Senior fee: £250UCL staff: £300Students: £200 To confirm your
enrolment together with your payment, we need to receive your enrolment form. Payment can be made online (Online store, see links below) or by
cheque. Please make cheques payable to ‘University College London’ and send to: Made In Italy
 Department of Italian
 School of European Languages, Culture &
Society
 University College London
 Gower Street
 London WC1E 6BTIntroduction to
Renaissance studies The Renaissance
Genius Magicians and
Philosophers in the RenaissanceFrom Kabiria to the present: key moments in
Italian cinemaLiving at the birth of the Renaissance, between
1350 and 1650
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Classes are taught through lectures, seminars, presentations and group works.Sessions are delivered in English with material provided in English and some in Italian.The reading material will be made available on the online course Moodle that will be made accessible to enrolled students.Made in Italy is convened by Dr Marta Niccolai.Modules will be taught by experts in their
field and you will have access to a wealth of knowledge, experience and
research.One 2 hour session a week
delivered over 5 weeks (10 hours in total) or 10 weeks (20 hours in total). For
further details see: Times, Dates and Locations.There is no formal assessment of
these modules. Outcomes are based on students’ own ability and progression.A certificate of attendance is issued with 70% attendance of a
course.If you have no formal qualification in the subject of Medieval and
Renaissance studies but you have a strong interest and have pursued the subject
independently, attendance to two or more Made in Italy courses on Medieval and
Renaissance studies will allow you to apply for an MA in Medieval Renaissance
StudiesPlease check their entry requirements under MA degree (Prospective
students) http://www.ucl.ac.uk/mars.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The calendar (including some special screenings) will
be posted on the film club's blog page. The movies will be in Italian with Italian or English 
subtitles and will be introduced by Dr Cristina Massaccesi (contact: 
c.massaccesi@ucl.ac.uk).
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Our staff are not just teachers: they are among the leading
researchers in many areas of Italian Studies, including linguistics, Dante, the
Renaissance, modern and contemporary literature, modern historical and cultural
studies, cinema, art and design history. UCL Italian students are the first
beneficiaries of all that expertise, through courses that reflect cutting-edge
thinking on a host of different subjects. Read more...Professor in Italian StudiesLecturer in Italian HistorySenior Lecturer in ItalianProfessor of Italian Cultural HistorySenior Teaching Fellow and Italian Language CoordinatorReader in Italian and Comparative LiteratureProfessor in Italian Literature and Writer in ResidenceSenior Teaching FellowProfessor in LinguisticsReader in Early Modern Italian StudiesReader in Italian StudiesAnd apply!
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Our staff are not just teachers: they are among the leading
researchers in many areas of Italian Studies, including linguistics, Dante, the
Renaissance, modern and contemporary literature, modern historical and cultural
studies, cinema, art and design history. UCL Italian students are the first
beneficiaries of all that expertise, through courses that reflect cutting-edge
thinking on a host of different subjects. Our
students quickly sense that they are in a hive of research activity. We hold
lively research seminars, open to all, with frequent contributions from
international scholars based in Italy, the rest of Europe, and the USA. We have
a high profile in the UK and world media. Several members of staff appear
regularly on radio and TV in the UK, Italy and beyond as experts in their
discipline; members of staff have also written frequently for the press.
Professor Robert Lumley has collaborated closely with Tate Modern and other
galleries, curating and writing on Italian contemporary art. In 2015, Dr
Catherine Keen and Professor John Took were involved in a series of events at
the Italian Cultural Institute to celebrate the 750th anniversary of Dante's
birth. In 2016, Professor John Dickie's history of Italian food was turned into
a six-part series on Italian television, which Prof Dickie presented himself.
We are the only UK Italian department with a writer-in-residence, Enrico
Palandri. Several members of staff have been awarded civil honours (the
equivalent of the British MBE or OBE) for their research by the President of
the Italian Republic.  UCL has an
unrivalled range of research resources on its doorstep. There is nowhere in
Britain that affords students such wonderful facilities for private study, and
such rich opportunities to work on first-hand Italian source material for their
essays and dissertations. UCL Library
is the largest and oldest college library in the University of London. It has
four special collections that include early Italian books: the Rotton and Ogden
collections (roughly 80,000 volumes), as well as the Castiglione and Dante
collections. All told, UCL library has a better holding of pre-twentieth
century Italian books than any other higher education institution in the UK. Students
also have access to the 14 million books in the nearby British Library (not
forgetting an astonishing 164 million other items, ranging from manuscripts to
sound recordings). As well as being a copyright library, entitled by law to a
copy of every book published in the UK, the British Library has the largest
collection of early printed books anywhere in the world. The number of Italian
publications is particularly large owing to influence of Antonio Panizzi,
founder of the library in its modern form and the first Professor of Italian at
UCL nearly two hundred years ago. The British
Newspaper Library at Colindale contains many Italian newspapers. The library of
the British Film Institute is a short walk away; it holds most of the major
Italian film periodicals published since the 1930s and many books on Italian
cinema. In addition, students have easy access to the libraries of the
Institute of Historical Research, the University of London in Senate House, the
Warburg Institute, the LSE, the Courtauld Institute, and the Wellcome Trust. 
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				All seminars are held on Wednesdays from 6pm in the Italian Seminar Room, Room 351, 
Third Floor, Foster Court, Malet Place, UCL, Gower Street, London, WC1E 
6BT (unless otherwise stated). View map (PDF)Maurizio Ferraris Learning from Post-Truth6.30 pm - Garwood Lecture Theatre, Room 9, First Floor, South Wing, UCL, Gower StreetMassimo Fusillo  Negative Empathy, Fear, Catharsis: An Intermedial Itinerary5.30pm - Foster Court 307Marco
Pescetelli         
Filologia e
restauro dei silent film Silvia
Costantino, Severino Antonelli, Claudia Durastanti      
 The Florentine Magazine:
exploring contemporary Italian writers David Lines               
 Teaching Language(s) at the University of
Bologna in the Sixteenth and Seventeenth Centuries: Practices and Debates Alessandro
Baronciani Comics, Sirens
and Self-Production  MODERN ITALIAN HISTORY SEMINAR SERIES - SPRING TERM 2016Conveners: Ilaria Favretto (Kingston), Maurizio Isabella (QMUL), Axel Körner (UCL), Carl Levy (Goldsmiths) All
meetings will take place on Wednesdays
at 5:30 in the Past &
Present Room (202) of the Institute of Historical Research, Senate House (Malet
St, London, WC1E 7HU), unless
otherwise stated. For updated information see http://www.history.ac.uk24 February 2016 - Book launch  Enrico dal Lago (NUI Galway), The Age of Lincoln and Cavour: Comparative Perspectives on Nineteenth-Century American and Italian Nation-Building. New York: Palgrave, 2015 William Lloyd Garrison and Giuseppe
Mazzini: Abolition, Democracy, and Radical Reform. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State
University Press, 2013Discussants: Eugenio Biagini (Cambridge), Nico Pizzolato (Middlesex)Chair: Axel Körner (UCL) 2 March 2016 - 3:00 pm - 7:30 pmInstitute of Advanced Studies, UCL, South Wing, Room G09, Gower Street, LondonVisual Storytelling. Examples from ItalyOrganized by the
AHRC-funded research project “Interdisciplinary Italy 1900-2020:
Interart/Intermedia” and hosted by the UCL Institute of Advanced Studies, this
multidisciplinary symposium explores the rich diversity of visual and verbal
art in contemporary Italy. We are delighted to welcome the illustrator and
painter Tullio Pericoli, one of Italy’s most distinguished contemporary
artists, who will speak, in conversation with Prof. Simona Corso (Roma Tre),
about how literature has shaped his artistic imagination. Interartistic
creativity will be envisaged as a constantly changing, dynamic field of
investigation, which has been, and continues to be, a driving force of modern
art. We will begin with a plenary lecture by the poet and scholar Prof. Jan
Baetens Professor of Cultural Studies at the University of Leuven and a leading
authority on literature and the visual arts. The afternoon will end with a
roundtable, chaired by Dr Florian Mussgnug (UCL), which will include
contributions by Dr Pierpaolo Antonello (Cambridge), Prof. Timothy Mathews
(UCL) and Dr Giuliana Pieri (Royal Holloway).This event is part of the project "Interdisciplinary Italy". You can find more information here: www.interdisciplinaryitaly.orgThe event is free, but please register at https://www.eventbrite.com/e/visual-storytelling-examples-from-italy-tickets-21079376984For further
information, please download the programme here or contact the organizer: f.mussgnug@ucl.ac.uk Francesca Pola (art curator)Arte Contemporanea a Villa Pisani Marco Mondini (ISIG-FBK)The War Life Experience in Italian First World War Autobiographical WritingSimone Brioni (SUNY) - Unfortunately due to unforseem circumstances this seminar has been cancelled.Race, Gender and the ‘Aliens’ in Luce D’Eramo’s Partiranno (1986) Ruth Ben-Ghiat (NYU) - Unfortunately this seminar has been cancelled.Italian Fascism’s Empire Cinema Francesca Medaglia (Lincei + BA)Allegory and Psychology in Multi-authorship WritingAlessandro GuettaItalian Jewish Intellectuals' usage of Hebrew and Italian in the late Renaissance Silvia Contarini
(Université Paris Ouest Nanterre La DéfenseLetteratura italiana e multiculturalitàDavide Dalmas (Università di Torino)Letteratura italiana e Riforma protestante: un
incontro impossibile?Claude Perrus (Université Sorbonne
Nouvelle – Paris 3)Come
leggere la Commedia di
Dante: la lezione dei poeti (Eliot, Mandelstam, e altri)Jane Tylus (New York University)Pastoral, Peasants, and Portraits of Rural Life in the Renaissance: Ruzante, the Rozzi, and Shakespeare Marie-José Tramuta (Université de Caen)Alberto Savinio e l'Europa: un artista pellegrino sotto il segno di MercurioGiulia Ammannati and Francesco Giancane
(Scuola Normale Superiore di Pisa)Le
epigrafi di Poggio Mirteto: la scoperta di una lauda di
inizio TrecentoThursday 16 October 2014Department of History of Art (20-21 Gordon Square, London  WC1H 0AG)Seminar Room 36pmAra H. Merjian (New York University)Painting in Chains: Giorgio de Chirico’s Willful
ClaustrophiliaPart of the History of Art research seminars, held in collaboration with the Italian Department.Alessandra Montalbano (Scuola Normale Superiore di Pisa)Combating Ransom Kidnapping in Modern Italy:
Magistrates, Memoirs, Media Thursday 23 October 2014,3pm - 6pmUCL Chandler House, 2 Wakefield Street, London, WC1N 1PF, Room 118Lampedusa: Migratory Space, Memory and Aesthetics  Luca Baldoni (James Madison University) and Flaviano Pisanelli (Montpellier III - Paul Valéry)Poesia e omosessualità nel Novecento italiano Jessica Goethals (Villa I Tatti, Harvard University)From the Grotesque to the Galilean: Margherita
Costa and the Spectacle of Baroque Female DramaturgyLucia Rinaldi (UCL)The Many Lives of Inspector MontalbanoItalian Merchants Abroad and the Use of Foreign Languages, 14th-16th CenturiesFrancesco Guidi-Bruscoli (University of Florence)Il fantastico femminile: una questione di genereBeatrice Manetti (University of Turin)Traumi e vittime: introduzione alla narrativa italiana contemporaneaDaniele Giglioli (University of Bergamo) in conversation with Stefano JossaIn collaboration with Royal HollowayIl "New Italian Realism": genesi, caratteri, dibattito (2008-2013)  Davide Luglio
(Université Paris-Sorbonne)L'ermetismo: una generazione Anna Dolfi (University of
Florence)"Porte aperte": la mafia, il fascismo e la polizia negli anni TrentaManoela PattiCentre Stage Series: Rehearsing TranslationChaired by Eva Daníčková (Dramaturgs’ Network)Centre Stage Series: Commedia dell’Arte: From Street to Salon Oliver Crick (Artistic Director of The Fabulous
Old Spot Theatre Company)Chaired
by Chris Stamatakis (UCL)Centre Stage Series: Not Pierrot, More Pirandello! Facilitated by Charlotte CoxChaired
by Enza De Francisci (UCL)Centre Stage Series: Homage to Franca Rame: Actress, Writer, ActivistLed by Joseph Farrell (University of
Strathclyde)Chaired
by Marta Niccolai (UCL)Silvano Montaldo (University of Turin)Many
 Western museums in recent decades have had to deal with the question of
 the return of human remains (ancestral bones, heads and body parts) 
contained in their collections. This talk reconstructs the court case 
and media coverage surrounding the skull of Giuseppe Villella, displayed
 in the Lombroso Museum of the University of Turin. Villella was a petty
 thief, imprisoned in Pavia where he died, but his skull became famous 
in the scientific community due to its connection to Lombroso’s 
criminological theory. It was by studying this particular skull, in 
1870, that Lombroso first thought he identified the signs of a 
particular conformation of the brain that caused criminal behaviour. 
That moment of ‘discovery’ was the start not only of a criminological 
theory, but of one of the first hypothesis about the relationship 
between behaviour and biology. A controversial court case, triggered by 
Italian politicians eager to label the Museum as racist, now threatens 
the continued presence of the skull in the museum. This talk highlights 
the value of this specimen for the history of science, the positions of 
the main protagonists of the skull controversy and the risks that 
historical revisionism poses to the future of cultural heritage.Giuseppe Sangirardi (Université de Bourgogne)From
 Romantic idealism to postmodernism, from Hegel to Calvino, irony has 
always been seen as the key for interpreting Ludovico Ariosto’s Orlando 
furioso and has functioned as the base of a literary paradigm that 
supposedly allows for a comprehensive understanding of the multiple 
layers of meaning of this Renaissance masterpiece. However, despite – or
 perhaps thanks to – its success, this idea is not guileless. In fact, 
there are different kinds of irony in the Furioso, not only because 
Ariosto’s models for irony were various, but also because many have been
 the critical perspectives from which this idea has been elaborated on. 
Combining reception theory and textual philology, this talk outlines the
 critical panorama of Ariosto’s irony and illustrates some of its most 
unusual landscapes.Please note: this talk will be in Italian.Chaired by Professor Marina Warner and performed by Marco GambinoThe School of Sons is
 a desperate and profoundly human soliloquy, of Stefano Pirandello, the 
eldest son of Luigi Pirandello. Through these words, spoken by a son, 
his father’s total victim, we catch the most subtle intimacies of a 
family, so deeply tragic in character as to become paradoxically 
umoristico – as well as all the disgust and nausea of a son who was 
plagiarised and mocked. Luigi Pirandello’s love for his children was so 
unhealthy that they seemed to him creatures in every way like the 
characters of his plays: uncertain figures whom he loathed and 
ridiculed, as he probably also did himself. We only have to read a few 
lines by Stefano Pirandello (he was also a playwright who modestly 
called himself Landi) to understand the suffering and self-abasement of 
this man. ‘Death is not possible for me.  Nor is birth.  Truly, we’re 
here, as if we were forever born, as if we were forever alive’.In
 the working-class areas of Naples, private ceremonies are a thriving 
business. This is one of the few areas in the world where the stars are 
not the internationally-renowned ones promoted by MTV but are home-grown
 singers. At wedding parties, which may last over twelve hours, the 
performers enthral relatives and friends of the hosts throughout a 
gargantuan banquet. Weddings, first communions, christenings, birthdays 
and neighbourhood celebrations form the background to Le Coccinelleshows that entertain an audience consumed with curiosity. Children are entranced and the women are moved by the show of Le Coccinelle.
 The ties that bind the women with the Neapolitan transsexuals are 
ancient and deep and except for ceremonies, only women are allowed to 
watch their performances. In restaurant dining rooms decked out in fake 
Baroque style, Le Coccinelle sing and perform their acts. They 
tell stories of prostitution, of the judgement by Naples’s upper class, 
of the hypocrisy of their clients; but they also recount their 
friendships with the women of the back streets and the Neapolitans’ 
joyous way of life.The director Emanuela Pirelli 
is a young photographer and filmmaker from Naples. She graduated at the 
Rome’s Institute of Photography and Communication and did photo 
reportage work for magazines and agencies in Naples, Rome, Milan, 
Amsterdam and Berlin. In 2002 she attended the Documentary School by 
Doc/it and Zelig. Since then she has worked as camera operator and 
assistant director for documentaries, news and TV formats for both 
Italian and foreign productions. She directed behind the scenes, arts 
films and filmed for several documentaries such as Winners and Losers 
(2007) by Lech Kowalsky.The film (in Italian 
with English subtitles) will be introduced by Nicola G. Ibba and will be
 followed by a Q&A with the director. When it comes to freedom of the press, Italy ranks 57th in the
world according to Reporters sans Frontières. Yet Italian citizens have access
to many respected national newspapers, seven TV channels, a lively scene of
information websites, a multiplicity of newswires and radios, and, possibly,
more political talk shows than most other countries. How can such a situation be
considered as being only ‘partly free’? With a media tycoon having run the
country for the majority of the last 20 years, Italian journalism has seen its
reputation dragged through the mire. Will it be restored now that Berlusconi’s
power is declining? How is the country’s media landscape coping with the
ongoing hard economic crisis? Tracing an history of journalism it Italy and
analysing the way reporters currently operate, the two speakers will try to
give an answer to these questions.John Lloyd
 is a
Contributing Editor for the Financial
Times, Director of Journalism at the Reuters Institute for the Study of
Journalism, and a columnist for La
Repubblica of Rome. At the Financial Times, he has been
Labour Editor, Industrial Editor, East European Editor and Moscow Bureau
 Chief.
In 2003 he launched the FT
Magazinewhich he edited until 2005. He is chairman of the Advisory Board
 of
the Moscow School of Civic Enlightenment. John Lloyd has won awards as 
Journalist of the Year,Specialist
Writer of the Year and the David Watt Prize. He has been
editor of The New Statesman in the 1980s and of Time Out in the 1970s. 
He has worked for Weekend World, the London Programme (LWT) and for 
Independent Radio News.
His books include Eserciti di
carta, an insightful analysis of journalism in Italy written with
Ferdinando Giugliano. Cristina Marconi is an
Italian freelance journalist and former fellow at the Reuters Institute for the
Study of Journalism in Oxford. She spent six years in Brussels as a correspondent
for Italian media and, before that, she worked in Rome as a financial reporter
for a newswire. A graduate in Philosophy at the Scuola Normale Superiore in
Pisa, she is currently based in London and is working on two projects on the
European Union: a research on the press coverage of the debt crisis and a
documentary about the future of the EU.In conversation with Dr Emanuela Tandello (University of
Oxford)From August to November 2013, the National Theatre staged
Pirandello’s Liolà in a new version by Tanya Ronder, directed by Richard Eyre.
The lead actor, Rory Keenan, will discuss how it felt to perform Liolà,
offering an ‘inside’ view of this new staging which combines the Irish world of
the actors with the Sicilian world of the characters. The session will be
concluded with a reading by the actor of an extract from Pirandello’s work.Andrea Del Corno (London Library)This talk addresses Italian political journalism in London during the years 1840-1859, primarily focusing on four journals (Apostolato Popolare, Il Pellegrino, L’Educatore and Pensiero ed Azione) run
 by Giuseppe Mazzini (1805-1872), the Italian activist whose advocacy 
for national independence and democracy was inspirational for the 1861 
Unification of Italy.  Circumstances surrounding the printing and 
circulation of these journals have not yet been fully investigated. 
 This talk scrutinises their dissemination and political significance 
within the diffusion of Italian and, more widely, foreign-language 
printed materials in Victorian London.  Prominent attention is given to a
 rare, if not unique, print-run of Il Pellegrino, of which, until
 recently, no copies were known to be extant.  Mazzini’s political 
journals represent an outstanding and prime example of Italian exile 
culture and foreign-language publication in nineteenth-century London.Luca VulloAn
 invigorating and informative journey through the art of gesticulation, 
led by film director, Luca Vullo. The director will introduce his 
docu-film, La voce del corpo, and offer a behind-the-scenes discussion 
on his innovative work following the 60-minute screening. A unique 
opportunity to learn how to gesticulate and ‘speak’ Italian through the 
particular code of body language.Marco GambinoTalkingestures
 is a pilot to a larger project on body language. The expressive 
Sicilians have stereotypically been characterized a population which 
relies heavily on gesticulation. To exemplify the importance of 
gestures, the actor, Marco Gambino, with the support of film director, 
Luca Vullo, will present two versions of the same monologue. The first 
will see the actor perform the monologue through mime, alongside a video
 and musical support. In the second, Gambino will present the same 
monologue this time including the ‘missing’ words, and, in comparing the
 two different ways of communicating, will strengthen the value of 
talkingestures.Annamaria Giusti (Opificio delle Pietre Dure, Florence)This lecture illustrated the various aspects and phases of the restoration of Lorenzo
Ghiberti’s Gates of Paradise, the Florentine Renaissance masterpiece
constructed between 1425 and 1452 that once adorned the east entrance to the
Baptistery in Florence. A monumental set of gilded bronze doors standing at
just over five metres tall and containing scenes from the Old Testament, the
Gates of Paradise were in poor shape after more than five centuries, blackened
by wind, weather, and pollution – not to mention the catastrophic flooding of
Florence in 1966. The damage was caused by excessive humidity which allowed
salts to crystallise on the bronze and corrode small holes in the surface.
Removed in 1990, when replicas were installed on the Baptistery’s hinges, the
sculpted doors underwent a long period of restoration (more than two decades),
in which a nitrogen atmosphere was used to protect them. Today, installed in
their own room at the Museo dell’Opera del Duomo in Florence, the Gates of
Paradise are back on display in a protective case that guarantees a constant
level of humidity at 20% and filters the air in the casing, removing dust and
harmful gases.Annamaria Giusti is the
Director of the Opificio delle Pietre Dure, one of the foremost conservation
institutes in the world, and directed the conservation work that restored the
Gates of Paradise to their former glory.Chaired by: Beatrice SicaMahnaz Yousefzadeh (New York University)The
 city of Florence inaugurated her newly built galley system in 1422, 
sending two ambassadors to Cairo to visit the Mamluk Sultan Barsbay. 
This lecture offered a close reading of the diary of one ambassador, 
Felice Brancacci, a prominent Florentine silk merchant and the patron of
 Masaccio’s iconic frescoes in the Brancacci Chapel of the Church of 
Santa Maria del Carmine in Florence.  The diary opened the way for an 
investigation into 15th-century cultural encounters in the 
Mediterranean, disclosing the nature of the relationship between Muslim 
and Christian capital cities. The examination of the chronicle revealed 
the ways in which Felice’s personal experiences as merchant, ambassador,
 visitor, and Christian guest in Egypt led not only to patronage, but 
also yielded the actual themes and iconography of Masaccio’s iconic 
fresco, “Tribute Money,” which was commissioned immediately upon 
Brancacci’s return from Egypt.  The lecture’s analysis of Brancacci’s 
cross-cultural maritime experience hence provideed important insights 
into the meaning of Masaccio’s enigmatic work.Chaired by: Beatrice SicaGraziella Parati (Dartmouth College)Igiaba
 Scego’s attempt to remap Rome according to a familial memory of Somalia
 sets up an interesting framework in spatial thinking that defines an 
“other’s” approach to urban space.This event was in collaboration with the UCL Centre for Intercultural StudiesChaired by: Federica MazzaraKenneth P Clarke (University of York)With its highly complex moral landscape, the Decameron is an unusual source for Renaissance wedding chests or cassoni, which usually emphasize female virtues and obedience. Indeed, the iconography of these cassoni was mostly drawn from Latin sources such as works by Plutarch or Suetonius and the Decameron was much less frequently deployed. This talk examined some of the surviving cassoni depicting scenes from the Decameron. It looked in particular at Griselda (Dec X 10) and Zinevra (Dec II 9), in two sets of highly unusual cassoni, exploring the ways in which these women are represented and how their virtue is reinterpreted and repackaged for its audience.This
 seminar formed part of a series of medieval Italian events planned at 
UCL that year, in connection with current research projects and with the
 2013 Boccaccio Septcentenary.Chaired by: Catherine KeenAs a student at the Slade School of Fine Art Lorenza Mazzetti made her first film K based on Kafka’s Metamorphosis,
 featuring fellow student Michael Andrews as Gregor Samsa. With support 
from the Slade Professor William Coldstream and the director of the BFI,
 Denis Forman, Mazzetti was financed by the BFI Experimental Film Fund 
to make Together, with Eduardo Paolozzi and Michael Andrews as deaf-mute dockworkers in London’s bomb-damaged East End. Together
 was shown at the first Free Cinema event at the NFT in 1956.  With its 
credo of subjectivity, poetic freedom and the elevation of the everyday,
 Free Cinema brought Mazzetti into contact with figures such as Lindsay 
Anderson, Karel Reisz, Tony Richardson, Walter Lassally and John 
Fletcher. In its pronounced rejection of theatrical cinematic 
conventions, Free Cinema’s relationship with Italian neorealism, radical
 British documentary and ‘Kitchen Sink’ drama, situates it at a 
contested but fascinating point within post–war British culture. As an 
Italian woman in a predominantly male domain, working at the cusp of the
 profound social and cultural shifts later associated with the 1960’s, 
Mazzetti offers unique insights into the creative and intellectual 
ambitions of the Free Cinema Movement in Britain.Mazzetti returned to Italy in 1956 where she made documentary films and wrote two novels. Her 1961 novel Il Cielo Cade
 (The Sky Falls,) based on her traumatic childhood wartime experiences, 
was made into the 2000 film directed by Andrea and Antonio Frazzi, 
starring Isabella Rossellini. She worked collaboratively for many years 
in puppet theatre and continues to paint prolifically. London Diaries
 – Mazzetti’s account of her time in England will be published by 
Sellario in Italy later this year. She lives and works in Rome.Chaired by: Cristina MassaccesiAlessandra Cerreti (Direzione Distrettuale Antimafia, Reggio Calabria)Alessandra
 Cerreti fa parte della Direzione Distrettuale Antimafia di Reggio 
Calabria, dove si occupa della ’ndrangheta. È titolare di procedimenti 
che hanno condotto a centinaia di arresti di appartenenti a questa 
organizzazione mafiosa e alla cattura di pericolosi latitanti. Ha 
chiesto e ottenuto il sequestro dei beni di componenti o prestanomi 
delle cosche mafiose per un totale di 220 milioni di Euro. Ha, infine, 
ottenuto e gestito la prima collaborazione con la giustizia di una donna
 di ’ndrangheta, Giuseppina Pesce.Chaired by: John DickieSarah Dunant and Professor Lisa JardineSarah
 Dunant and Professor Lisa Jardine discussed the extent to which 
historical fiction has, over the last twenty
years, become an ambassador for academic historical writing. This 
discussion considered the publication of Sarah Dunant's novel set in
Renaissance Italy and centred on the Borgia, Blood and Beauty.Sarah Dunant is the international bestselling author of
the novels The Birth of Venus, In the Company of the Courtesan and Sacred
Hearts, all set in Renaissance Italy. Sarah Dunant is also a broadcaster and
critic. She was a founding vice patron of the Orange Prize for women's fiction
and sits on the editorial board of the Royal Academy magazine.Lisa Jardine CBE is Professor of Renaissance Studies at
University College London. Professor Jardine is Director of the Centre for
Humanities Interdisciplinary Research Projects and Director of the Centre for
Editing Lives and Letters. She is a fellow of the Royal Historical Society and
an Honorary Fellow of King's College, Cambridge and Jesus College, Cambridge.
She has published extensively on the Renaissance including works on Bacon,
Shakespeare and Erasmus.Chaired by: Timothy DemetrisJeffrey Schnapp (Harvard University)Guido Mazzoni (University of Siena)Between the middle of the sixteenth century and the end of the
eighteenth, the method of representing social and moral life in European novels
changed completely. While in the last two centuries the novel has become the
genre in which any kind of story can be narrated in any manner, until the
second half of the eighteenth century the representation of reality in novels
had to follow strict rules that were implicitly assumed by both readers and
writers. Such were, for example, the Platonic-Christian obligation to moralize
stories and heroes, showing the vices punished and the virtues rewarded, and
the rule of differentiating writing styles according to the social classes that
were represented. What we call today "modern novel" stems precisely
from overcoming these rules and asuumptions. The genre born from that
metamorphosis brough a new vision of the world.John Foot (UCL)This lecture will look at the origins of radical psychiatry in Italy, a
movement which took control of asylums in order to close them down, and which
began in Gorizia, on the border with Yugoslavia, in 1961. The talk will discuss
how a small group of psychiatrists were able to link up with the ideas and
movements of 1968, and how this movement has been analysed and mythologised in
subsequent years.Simone Brioni (University of Warwick)Who are you? In an attempt to give an answer to this apparently simple
question, Ribka Sibhatu, Italian writer and essayist of Eritrean origin,
presents the history of her homeland in her current city, Rome. In her
imaginary trip backwards through her memories, she is accompanied by a young
Italian man, who shares her same interest in exploring the relationship between
identity and territory. Ribka’s own personal story intersects powerfully with
the stories of the Eritrean diaspora, which not only does it show the fault
traces that colonialism has left behind in her country, but also demonstrates
how the perception of immigration in Italy has been profoundly influenced by an
apparent failure in the process of decolonization in Italian collective memory.
Aulò brings into question the concept of confine, not only in geographical, but
also in cultural and identitarian terms.Robert Gordon (University of Cambridge)in conversation with the author, presents:Opened in 1870, Le Nuove was one of Italy’s first
panoptical prisons. During the Second World War it was occupied by the Nazis,
who executed and deported anti-Fascist and Jewish prisoners held there. In the
1970s it housed left-wing ‘terrorists,’ who spearheaded violent riots that
spread to prisons across Italy and intimidated and assassinated prison staff.
When Le Nuove finally closed down in October 2003, the
memories of the tragic events that occurred there became obstacles to its
demolition. This book examines the cultural memory of Le Nuove via
oral history, archival research and the material traces left within the
building itself to discuss memory, heritage and the legacy of political
violence in contemporary Italy.Discutono: Stefano Jossa (Royal Holloway) e Gabriele Pedullà (Universita' degli Studi di Roma Tre).Si dice spesso che la letteratura è un viaggio, nello spazio come nel tempo. Ma fino ad ora, nessuno aveva mai provato a scriverne la storia con gli strumenti del viaggiatore (di ieri o di oggi): la carta geografica, la guida artistica, la mappa topografica, se non proprio il navigatore satellitare. In questa nuova «Grande Opera» – frutto del lavoro di quasi duecento specialisti provenienti dal mondo intero – la storia della letteratura italiana viene raccontata per la prima volta alla maniera di Albert Einstein: come un vertiginoso viaggio nello spaziotempo. Ci sono i grandi personaggi della nostra letteratura, ritratti, quasi fosse una fotografia «istantanea», in un momento decisivo della loro vita. Ci sono i libri fondamentali della nostra civiltà letteraria, restituiti alla ricchezza (e alla complessità) dell’epoca storica in cui vennero prodotti. E ci sono – riconoscibili come mai prima d’ora – i luoghi di un’Italia letteraria che si estende ben oltre i limiti dello stivale: le città e le strade, gli edifici e le case, i panorami e i paesaggi, negli otto secoli che separano il 1200 dal Duemila. Lunghi intrecci e brevi istanti di svolta. Una mappa della fantasia italiana.Chair: Robert Lumley (UCL)Marco Assennato was born in Palermo in 1978. He has lived in Paris since 2009. He graduated in philosophy, with a thesis on Spinoza. His main field of research is the relationship between politics and architecture. He is currently doing a PhD at ENSA, Paris-Malaquais, working on a research project on Manfredo Tafuri.International Conference with the support of the UCL School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS) and the UCL Faculty Institute of Graduate Studies (FIGS)Organizers:  Florian Mussgnug (UCL) and  Emanuela Patti (UCL)Confirmed Speakers:Emanuela Patti (UCL, Cagliari): Remediating collective identities, narratives and myths in literature in the new media contextJakob Stoutgaard–Nielsen (UCL) Authorship in the digital eraClaudia Boscolo (Royal Holloway) Transmedia storytelling and contemporary Italian Fiction: An Overview Tommaso Pincio (writer and artist, Rome)Cristina Massaccesi (UCL) Transmedial Contamination in Italian Graphic NarrativesOtto Gabos (Graphic Novelist)Federica Chiocchetti (UCL)  Literature and photography countering the mimetic: a theoretical exploration.Daniele Salerno (University of Bologna)On June 27th 1980, an aircraft en route from Bologna to Palermo plunged into the Tyrrhenian Sea off the island of Ustica, near Sicily. Eighty-one people died. From 1984 to 1999, three different judges investigated the case. According to the most recent sentence, the aircraft was probably shot down by a missile, launched by a warplane belonging to an unknown NATO country.The main aim of this research (in progress) is to analyse the shaping of the public memory of this event, which found its pivotal moment in the construction of the Museum for the Memory of Ustica in Bologna. I argue that this process can be divided in three periods: the period of latency (1980-1986); the period of recognition of the massacre (1990s to early 2000s); and the years of conflicting memories (which lasts up to the present and is ongoing). These conflicts link up to a dual and interconnected tendency in the shaping of the Italian public memory of those years (the so called ‘Years of Lead’): the inability of State institutions to create an acceptable collective version of this event, and the victims’ narratives which have been pivotal in legitimising different versions of the past.Filippo La Porta (Rome) Filippo La Porta is a one of Italy’s leading literary critics. He regularly writes for Corriere della sera, Il Messaggero, and Sole24Ore. Recent publications include Maestri irregolari (2007, winner of the Premio De Lollis); Dizionario della critica militante (2007, with Giuseppe Leonelli), Uno sguardo sulla città (2010) and Meno letteratura, per favore (2010).Timothy Demetris (UCL) In the summer of 1472 Pope Sixtus IV launched a naval campaign against the Turks with Cardinal Oliviero Carafa as commander of the papal fleet. This military enterprise has received little attention from scholars. My paper will consider how it may not only inform us of Sixtus IV's early policy regarding the Turks but also provide context for his later engagement with Mehmed II's forces during the capture and liberation of Otranto in 1480-1481. I shall present a historical account of Cardinal Carafa's campaign using both modern and contemporary sources. I shall then examine the lives of those individuals involved and present the known portraits we have of them and visual representations of the campaign itself.Margaret Rose (University of Milan)Prof. Maggie Rose teaches British Theatre Studies at Milan State University. A writer, translator and dramaturge, she spends part of the year in the UK for her writing and research. She is a member of Playwrights Studio Scotland and the Scottish Association of Playwrights. Her stage and radio plays, reflecting her interest in issues of migration and multiculturalism as well as reworkings of Shakespeare, have been produced in the UK and Italy. Her stage translations have been performed in the UK, America and Italy. With Salvatore Cabras, she has co-translated Edward Bond’s Warplays, directed by Luca Ronconi and Alan Bennett’s The History Plays directed by Elio de Capitani e F.Bruni. Alice, an adaptation of Alice in Wonderland ran at Milan’s Piccolo Teatro in 2009 and 2010. She has co-created and co-directed festival-symposiums such as Scotsfest, Scambiare and Scottish Italian Connections and Identities. In her lecture, she will be considering various plays (Tally’s Blood, Six Months Here Six Months There, Shattered Head), documentaries (Dangerous Characters) and autobiographies, dealing with a crucial moment in history: June 1940, when Benito Mussolini declared war on Great Britain and France, and when many Italians living in the UK suddenly found themselves labelled as “enemy aliens”.Suzanne Stewart-Steinberg (Brown University) Prof. Stewart-Steinberg’s widely acclaimed study of modern Italian identity in the post-Unification period, The Pinocchio Effect: On Making Italians, 1860-1930(University of Chicago Press, 2007) was awarded the Aldo and Jeanne Scaglione Prize for Best Manuscript in Italian Studies by the Modern Language Association. This event was hosted jointly with the IHR Modern Italian History Seminar.Chiara Caprì, one of the founders of the Sicilian anti-extortion organizationAddiopizzo, will speak about her new book on Libero Grassi, the Palermo entrepreneur murdered for refusing to pay protection money.Enza de Francisci (UCL)This seminar compares Verga’s and Pirandello’s method of transposing a selection of short stories to the stage; questioning what happens when authorial intervention is withdrawn and the two writers rely on dialogue and assessing how the modifications introduced to the theatrical versions affect the portrayal of women. It will be suggested that although the female protagonists take a subsidiary position in the triangular relationship they are involved in, they nevertheless dominate both narrative and dramatic plots.Silvia Sfligiotti (Alizarina Studio – Milan)Annelys de Vet (Sandberg Institute Amsterdam)Annelies Vaneycken (Trans-ID Brussels)The seminar will feature a presentation by Silvia Sfligiotti of Alizarina Studio Milan on the role of the user in the design process – should designers work with, for or against the users? Annelys de Vet of the Sandberg Institute Amsterdam and Annelies Vaneycken of Trans-ID Brussels will also present on their recent works, in which visual communication is used as a tool to chart and highlight tensions and cleavages in culture and society. The seminar will end with an open round table discussion with the participation of Ken Garland and Richard Hollis.Elettra Carbone (UCL)For many Norwegians the Italian Risorgimento was seen as an inspiration, a symbol of freedom. Besides being a topical subject, especially in newspapers and magazines, the Risorgimento struggle was represented in literary works by famous Norwegian authors. How was this period of the Italian history represented before and after Norway’s independence in 1905?Simone Brioni (Warwick)The director and the writer Kaha Mohamed Aden will be present.Synopsis: Kaha Mohamed Aden narrates her memories of Mogadishu, her birth city, and reconstruct its story in Pavia, where she currently lives. The capital of Somalia is divided into five streets, which corresponds to different histoica periods. The fourth street symbolizes the actuality of civil war. This negates the preceding periods and makes it necessary to hope for the 'fifth street'. The film has English subtitles.Georgia Panteli (UCL)The seminar focuses on postmodern retellings of Pinocchio, and these include graphic  retellings as well as some examples of posthuman Pinocchios. In my talk I will explain how I connect Pinocchio to cyborgs, following the literary history of the animate/inanimate  archetype, of which Pinocchio is a vital part. I will also refer in more detail to the bande dessinée that won the Fauve d'Or prize in 2009, 'Pinocchio' by Winshluss. Maria Coduri (UCL) The aim of this seminar is to show different trends of acting and directing Shakespeare's plays in Italy from the performances of the "great actors" of mid-nineteenth century to the first stagings of the "teatro di regia" (director's theatre).Sebastiano Caroni (UCL) The aim of the presentation is threefold. Firstly, to situate Eco's relationship with structuralist method and approach as a formative moment in Eco's intellectual trajectory. Secondly, the presentation discusses Eco's ideas of interpretation against the background of Eco's critique of structuralism. Thirdly, it shows how Eco's ideas of interpretation can be the starting point to explore the intellectual norms and practices that sustain the ethic of academic work.Presented by author Yosefa Loshitzky (East London University)Yosefa Loshitzky challenges the utopian notion of a post-national "New Europe" by focusing on the waves of migrants and refugees that some view as a potential threat to European identity, a concern heightened by the rhetoric of the war on terror, the London Underground bombings, and the riots in Paris's banlieues. Opening a cinematic window onto this struggle, Loshitzky determines patterns in the representation and negotiation of European identity in several European films from the late 20th and early 21st centuries, including Bernardo Bertolucci's Besieged, Stephen Frears’s Dirty Pretty Things, Mathieu Kassovitz's La Haine, and Michael Winterbottom's In This World, Code 46, and The Road to Guantanamo.Fabio Camilletti (University of Warwick)The seminar will explore some of the methodological challenges emerged in the course of my research on the nineteenth-century metamorphoses of Dante’s Vita Nova. More specifically, by focusing on some re-elaborations of the episode of the 'woman at the window' – whose ambiguities make of it a veritable crux in Dantean philology - I will show how it is used as a frame in which the tensions of nineteenth-century desire are articulated.Evelyn Ferraro (Brown University)Migrants’ complex identities defy any rigid cultural classifications because of the liminal, or in-between, positions that migrant subjects inhabit. In this seminar, the spatial concept of being on the threshold will primarily be adopted to discuss contemporary literary and visual representations of the Italian migratory experience to North America vis-à-vis Italian national identity. In addition, the threshold will provide a theoretical tool to launch a preliminary reflection on Italy’s own liminality within the Mediterranean.Chris Adams (Estorick Collection of Modern Italian Art)Unlike Fauvism or Cubism, Futurism was not simply a painterly technique but a way of life. This paper considers if its holistic ambition was a distinctively Italian phenomenon - the movement emerging in the home of a world religion and the birthplace of modern totalitarianism - and if Futurism's continuation in the post-war period was motivated as much by the desire to counter a newfound cultural ‘agnosticism’ as by any aesthetic differences.Paolo Favero (Lisbon University Institute)Moving among historical material and contemporary debates on xenophobia and war, his seminar will explore the self-representation "Italiani Brava Gente", an image claiming the intrinsic goodness of the Italian people. Functioning as an ideological laundry for reformulating and then setting aside disquieting moments of national shame, "Italiani Brava gente" is central to the construction of  a modern Italian identity.Giuseppe A. Camerino (Università del Salento)Ampio panorama della caratteristiche dei maggiori scrittori triestini e giuliani tra l'Otto e il Novecento, tra attrazione della cultura viennese e austroungarica e richiamo della letteratura italiani nelo stesso periodo. Un'analisi che tocca i modi molto diversi e pur complementari con cui autori come Svevo, Saba, Slataper e Michelstaedter afrontano una complessa e irripetibile condizione di frontiera con tutti i connessi problemi linguistici, religiosi, filosofici e culturali in genere che una realtà del genere, per certi vesi altamente cosmopolita, richiedeva.Benedetta Tobagi (UCL) presentas her book: "Come mi batte forte il tuo cuore"Benedetta Tobagi presents her book dedicated to her father, Walter Tobagi, a "Corriere della Sera" journalist, murdered by leftist extremists in 1980.A film by Nick Mai (London Metropolitan University)followed by a discussion with the directorNORMAL is made of the combined interviews with four migrants (2 men, 2 women) working in the global sex industry, as agents and workers, respectively. The four characters explain how they came to see their involvement in the sex industry as NORMAL and how their notion of normality evolved with their life experiences. The film lasts 37 minutes.The actors were present.Federico Faloppa (University of Reading)Statistics say that Italy has become a multi-ethnic and multi-cultural contry. But the representation of migrants and ethnic groups in the Italian press has not changed much in the last 20 years, and derogatory labels and misreprsentations are far from being a relic of the past. Through the analysis of examples taken from newspapers and magazines, the paper will try to highlght a few linguistic elements - from lexicon to rhetoric - which seem to be part of an enduring strategy to construct and isolate 'otherness' linguistically. Laura Pariani (UCL)“Milano è una selva oscura”: La scrittura di Laura Pariani tra Dante e la tradizione lombarda.Fabio Cuzzola (Historian and Screenwriter) in conversation with John Dickie (UCL)Luciano Segreto (University of Florence)Giuliana Pieri (Royal Holloway University)David Forgacs (UCL)Ian Thomson (Royal Literary Fund Fellow, UCL)Guido Bonsaver (Oxford)Paola Nasti (University of Reading)“Narratives of Desire: biblical paradigms and vernacular actualizations”Heather Webb (Ohio State / CRASSH) “Dante's Cardiocentrism”Salvatore Lupo (University of Palermo) in conversation with John Dickie (UCL)Matteo Colombi (Leipzig) “Trieste: Everybody’s Colony?”Katia Pizzi (IGRS) “Trieste: A Dissident Port”Andrea Villarini (University of Siena)Sorry, this Silva Document is not viewable.  Research Seminars
				    Scandinavian Studies
				    SELCS
				 Welcome to the UCL Department of
Scandinavian Studies ! And a particularly warm
greeting to all our new and incoming students this autumn - we look forward
immensely to welcoming you to the department later on in September ! We teach and research the languages,
literature, history and visual culture of Denmark, Iceland, Norway and Sweden
from the medieval period to the present day. As the oldest Department of
Scandinavian Studies in the UK, we offer a wide range of undergraduate and
postgraduate programmes in the history and culture of the Nordic region,
including intensive language training ab initio. Research at the department
spans an array of subjects related to the Nordic world, from Scandinavian crime
fiction to the music of Sibelius, from film and media studies to Viking poetry. The UCL Department
of Scandinavian Studies is housed within the School of European Languages, Culture & Society. The department is home to Norvik Press, the UK's only press specialising in Nordic literature and culture, and
to the Viking Society for Northern Research, the world’s foremost learned society in
the field of medieval Scandinavian studies.“It is so much fun learning Old Norse as well as Norwegian, from
scratch. It provides me with invaluable life skills and opens many doors such
as moving to any part of Scandinavia when I am older. It makes me excited for
the future!”   — BA Scandinavian Studies studentFind out more about your options for study, and the Department's specialisms using the links below. Register your interest in studying at SELCS and  receive important information about open days, applications, and more.
 

 
 
Skip to NavigationNorvik Press is a publishing house specialising in Scandinavian literature. We publish:Our books can be ordered through online retailers and in all good bookshops.Find our books on:Details of how to place trade orders can be found on our Ordering page.Download our latest CatalogueDownload details of our series Lagerlöf in EnglishSelma Lagerlöf (1858-1940) was born on a farm in Värmland, trained as a teacher and became, in her life-time, Sweden’s most widely translated author ever. Novels such as Gösta Berlings saga (1891; Gösta Berling’s Saga) and Jerusalem (1901-02) helped regenerate Swedish literature, and the school textbook about Nils Holgersson who traverses Sweden on the back of a goose has become familiar the world over. Two very different trilogies, the Löwensköld trilogy (1925-28) and the Mårbacka trilogy (1922-32), the latter often taken to be autobiographical, give some idea of the range and power of Lagerlöf’s writing. Several of her texts inspired innovative films, among them Herr Arnes pengar (Sir Arne’s Treasure), directed by Mauritz Stiller (1919) and based on Herr Arnes penningar (1903; Lord Arne’s Silver), and Körkarlen (The Phantom Carriage), directed by Victor Sjöström (1921) and based on Lagerlöf’s Körkarlen (1912).  She was awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature, as the first woman ever, in 1909, and elected to the Swedish Academy, again as the first woman, in 1914. Having been able to buy back the farm of Mårbacka, which her family had lost as the result of bankruptcy, Lagerlöf spent the last three decades of her life combining her writing with the responsibilities for running a sizeable estate. Her work has been translated into close to 50 languages.   Most of the translations into English were made soon after the publication of the original Swedish texts and have long been out of date. Lagerlöf in English provides English-language readers with high-quality new translations of a selection of the Nobel Laureate’s most important texts.  What the press says about the series:  “These three novellas, all beautifully translated, with percipient introductions, are distinguished by imaginative and sensory power for which “genius” is the only word”.
 Paul Binding, TLS (7 October 2011) Lagerlöf in English (Adobe PDF, 2.95 MB)Books published in 2011:Coming up in 2012:Top of page© 2017 Norvik Press Ltd · Department of Scandinavian Studies · University College London · Gower Street · London · WC1E 6BT E-Mail norvik.press@ucl.ac.ukWebsite by Intexta
				    Scandinavian Studies
				    SELCS
				 The UCL Department of Scandinavian Studies
is the perfect place to study the Nordic Region at postgraduate level. As part
of the School of European Languages, Cultures and Society, we offer an MA in
Language, Culture and History that can be taken either as a full-time course
over one year or a two-year, part-time course. No previous knowledge of the
Scandinavian languages is required for this programme.Staff at the Department also provide the teaching across a range
of interdisciplinary programmes available in SELCS or centres within the
Faculty of Arts and Humanities including: The Department is also home to a small but
vibrant PhD student community. If you are interested in working with us, please
take a look at our ‘Meet the Staff’ page to identify a potential supervisor.
More information about PhD study can be found on the SELCS ‘Research’ page. Register your interest in studying at SELCS and  receive important information about open days, applications, and more.
 

   Register your interest

 

				    Scandinavian Studies
				    SELCS
				A BA in Scandinavian Studies, Icelandic, or Viking and Old Norse Studies makes you stand out from the crowd! Each of our undergraduate degrees combines
intensive language learning with modules on the history and culture of this
fascinating region. As a student at the UCL Department of Scandinavian Studies,
you will spend the first two years of the degree in London before travelling
abroad to study at a Scandinavian university.Spending your third year abroad
is the perfect opportunity to get to know the region first-hand, practice the
language, and make friends with other, like-minded students. After a final, fourth
year of study back in London, you will have mastered at least one Nordic
language and you will graduate with a sophisticated understanding of the Nordic
region and its relationship with the rest of the world. You’ll also have honed
your written and oral communication abilities, and you’ll have learned how to
develop and carry out independent, academic research. “I love studying in the Scandinavian Department at UCL because it is so tight-knit, and we can help and support each other in seminars. It means support is always just round the corner.” — BA Scandinavian Studies studentA truly Nordic department, we teach Danish,
Icelandic, Norwegian, Swedish, as well as their medieval precursor, Old Norse.
Our cultural, historical and political courses also cover Finland. We have
strong medieval expertise, both historical and literary, and we offer a variety
of modules in modern cultural studies, including literature, film, historical
topics and politics. Our language courses are intense and engaging, taught in
small groups by experienced language pedagogues using a wide range of materials
and topics, and our cultural and historical courses are designed to give both
broad coverage of disciplines and topics as well as in-depth critical exposure
and analysis. We have dedicated degree programmes in
Scandinavian Studies, Viking and Old Norse Studies, and Icelandic (all of which
includes study of a main land Scandinavian language), or you can combine study
of one of our languages with another language or another subject in SELCS and
beyond. Research-based learning. The Department’s
teaching and research staff specialise in a wide range of fields and
disciplines. Our strengths include medieval history and literature; modern literature,
history and politics; film and media studies; and musicology and cultural
studies. We enjoy sharing our research with our students, and we are passionate
about helping students develop their own research skills, both at undergraduate
and postgraduate level. The Department runs regular research seminars,
conferences and workshops in order to showcase research by staff and students. Learn three Scandinavian
languages for the price of one! Our language tutors work together to teach students of the
three mainland Scandinavian languages how to speak to each other in their
respective languages. Joint classes in Danish, Norwegian and Swedish ensure
that students learn how to communicate across the Scandinavian region. Learning outside the classroom. We try to take
advantage of all the opportunities offered by our London location. As part of
our ‘Vikings and Material Cultures’ module, we take students on study trips to
the British Museum, the Museum of London and Senate House Library. We hold language classes in the UCL Art
Museum and participate in events at the various Nordic Embassies, including
book launches and author visits. We also organise study trips to Norway and
Denmark so that students can experience the region first-hand and practice
their languages will in advance of the Year Abroad.  Research at the Department encompasses a
broad range of fields, including literary, linguistic, historical and cultural
studies. See our ‘Meet the Staff’ page for a full list of specialisations. In the
2016-17 Times Higher Education rankings, University College London came 4th
in the world for teaching and research in the Arts and Humanities.Located in the heart of London, UCL is a
five-minute walk from the British Museum and ten minutes from the British
Library. We are surrounded by world-famous cultural institutions and historic
landmarks, as well as a diverse, multicultural population. At UCL, you will
meet people from across the UK and around the world.  The Department of Scandinavian Studies has
close ties with the Nordic Embassies in London, allowing our students unique
access to Embassy events such as author visits, academic conferences and social
gatherings.  The Department is also home to Norvik Press, the UK's only press specialising in Nordic literature and culture, and
to the Viking Society for Northern Research, the world’s foremost learned society in the
field of medieval Scandinavian studies.Register your interest in studying at SELCS and  receive important information about open days, applications, and more.
 

   Register your interest

 

				    Scandinavian Studies
				    SELCS
				UCL (University College London) is London's leading multidisciplinary 
university, with 8,000 staff and 25,000 students from 150 different 
countries. Founded in 1826 in the heart of London, UCL was the first 
university in England to welcome students of any class, race or 
religion, and the first to welcome women on equal terms with men.In 2008, Jessica Mulvogue and Ethan Stocks, students of UCL's Film Studies MA, made a short film about the Department of Scandinavian Studies. They were inspired by Jørgen Leth's classic short Det perfekte menneske (The Perfect Human, 1966).All courses in the Department of Scandinavian Studies 
are available as 
short courses to students and members of the public from outside UCL. 
For more information about short courses as a visiting student, visit:Register your interest in studying at SELCS and  receive important information about open days, applications, and more.
 

   Register your interest

 

				    Scandinavian Studies
				    SELCS
				Our research encompasses the languages, literatures, cultures and histories of all 
the countries of the Nordic region. We approach these in ways that are 
both multi-disciplinary and inter-disciplinary; that are both national 
but also comparative and inter-cultural; and that are synchronic but 
also diachronic, encompassing the period stretching from the Viking 
middle ages to the present day. Staff research interests include the 
following: You can also browse journal articles, book chapters, conference proceedings, digital web resources and more at:  Register your interest in studying at SELCS and  receive important information about open days, applications, and more.
 

   Register your interest

 

				    Scandinavian Studies
				    SELCS
				This project aimed to assist language teachers to develop and share their materials and practices in a group whose
languages and challenges to learners are very similar. The project aimed
specifically to create language materials for blended language learning
in the digital classroom for beginners and intermediate language learners of Danish, Icelandic, Norwegian and Swedish. Texts for LAHP publishing training 8.12.2015Article 1Article 2Article 3Article 4Submission guidelinesRegister your interest in studying at SELCS and  receive important information about open days, applications, and more.
 

   Register your interest

 

				    Scandinavian Studies
				    SELCS
				 This
project was undertaken by language teachers in the UCL department of Scandinavian
Studies in 2009-2010. It aimed to provide a framework for
sharing ideas about best practices in blended learning, and to
allow us to create new language learning materials for our students in
the digital classroom.  The project was made possible by a grant from
the SOAS and UCL Centre for Excellence in Teaching and Learning Languages of the Wider World (LWW CETL) 
and we are grateful for the advice and technical assistance of Ian
Newby (UCL Language Centre), Jo Eastlake (SOAS), Chris Dillon (UCL Arts
& Humanities), and Sibylle Nalezinski (LWW-CETL).  Our languages in Scandinavian Studies at UCL, as is the 
case with most less-taught languages, suffer first and foremost from a 
lack of language
materials that go beyond the traditional textbook with its
audio/visual model dialogues and grammar exercises. Our available 
language
materials are not geared towards blended learning, the use of authentic
texts, task-based learning or intercultural perspectives that are
becoming more and more central factors and demands in today's 
language learning and
teaching. International and national groups of teachers in our
individual languages are presently forming to confront this expressed
need, and this project will prepare our teachers to be in the forefront
of such future collaborations with creating materials and best
practices for blended language learning. Individual teachers in our department have been
involved in UCL and CETL projects in the past. Daisy Neijmann has been
involved in an Icelandic language mobile learning project within CETL,
and an introduction to Danish language in the ATLAS web-project was
created by Jannie Roed, a former Danish language teacher, and a Swedish
ATLAS site has also been created by the Swedish teacher in
collaboration with advanced students. Our department is giving all our courses a presence on 
Moodle, and this
project will assist the language teachers in creating best practices for
 using digital materials in the (virtual) department. Our project is,
then, continuous with smaller projects in the past and will prepare us
for the demands of the future.   The project aimed to assist language teachers to develop and share their materials and practices in a group whose
languages and challenges to learners are very similar. The project aimed
specifically to create language materials for blended language learning
in the digital classroom for beginners and intermediate language learners of Danish, Icelandic, Norwegian and Swedish.  Each language teacher produced
digital language materials equivalent to two weeks of
term-time teaching. The final product of each teacher consists of a
collection of materials and tasks for blended language learning under
the heading of a single theme (chosen by the individual language
teacher) and accompanied by a detailed description of the best
practices involved in teaching with the materials, the technologies
used and the skills practiced.All materials include the use of  
technologies/media for blended
learning in the digital classroom, for instance audio/video materials,
voice recording, websites and social networking activities such as
wiki, blog or chat. The materials and tasks used and created are
made available on the Scandinavian Studies Moodle site and
made available there as a digital and interactive "text-book". On this 
site we present our results so far in the shape of visual 
representations and examples from our materials, descriptions and 
evaluations of our work and suggestions for how to teach with materials 
of this sort. 
It is our hope that the materials presented here will 
inspire other teachers to engage in creating new materials and new 
practices for teaching in the virtual classroom and to share their 
results.Register your interest in studying at SELCS and  receive important information about open days, applications, and more.
 

   Register your interest

 

				    Scandinavian Studies
				    SELCS
				  The Danish digital learning objects were created with the LOC tool (Learning Object Creator) developed by the LLAS Subject Centre
in collaboration with the University of Southampton eLanguages group. 
According to the LLAS website, the LOC tool is "a simple authoring tool 
for teachers, which has been
specifically designed to enable teachers to create their own e-learning
materials without the need for technical support or training". The two 
learning objects created for
this project have both been integrated into the VLE (Moodle) that is 
used in the
Basic Danish course at UCL , and are furthermore accessible
from the CETL project Moodle site.  The materials are designed to introduce students, who have
 no prior
knowledge of  Danish to an interactive, immersive and fun way of 
learning the new sounds of Danish. The materials also intended to
appeal to the learners' sense of similarities between languages, their
imagination and creativity, and to their interest in Danish culture. 
While the materials may be used
independently by students as a distance learning tool, since students
receive immediate response after completing each activity, the
materials are best used in a blended learning environment, where the
tutor can assist and encourage the students, and an element of fun
competition and shared experience between the students add to the
learning experience. It goes without saying that this material intended as the first
language material my students encounter in the Basic Danish course is a
far cry from the tradition book based and newer web based materials
available to learners of Danish as a foreign language. Most materials,
either book or web based begin with very small units of language such
as greetings and explaining where you are from to proceed to tackle
larger units of communicative language useful when meeting Danes in
very stylized situations.These traditional materials perceive language
as small units that will be fed to the students who will then,
eventually, be able to put them together in larger more complex units
substituting them for relevant units according to grammar and idiom.
The materials created here are trying to turn this conception upside
down by allowing learners to immerse themselves in authentic materials,
and to produce language in all its complexity from the very beginning.The first object that was created for this project was inspired by
Ian Newby's ideas for teaching a beginners class Spanish through a
traditional song. For the Danish variant was chosen a song from the
1970's that most Danes know by heart as a children's song embedded in
its own time. The song has a simple structure, a repetitive rephrain
and includes simple vocabulary with many words that are recognizable
for English speakers, and grammatical structures that are repeated from
verse to verse.  This learning object was created to introduce first year students to
the sounds of Danish. Students with no prior knowledge of Danish would
usually not encounter "authentic" material such as this in their first
week as Danish learners. The material allows the students to make use
of their knowledge of languages and their senses in order to make sense
of the words of the song.They are asked to listen for instruments that
reveal something about the song's feel and content, they are asked to
make associations from visual materials and to discuss why certain
images may relate to the song, and they are asked to use their
knowledge of grammatical structures in Germanic languages, and of words
that are similar in Danish and English, to make sense of the song's
verses. Furthermore, it is an objective of this learning object to
teach students to listen for word sounds in Danish and to pronounce
Danish words with the song playing in the background. Students are
asked to sing along, and to record their own singing using mp3 recorder.  While the material can be used for self study, since there are
thorough comments to each exercise in the learning object, I taught it
in a blended learning environment. This gave students the opportunity
to talk to each other about their impressions and to compare results
when trying to sing along with the song. Especially the exercise where
students are asked to look at some photos and decide whether they fit
the song is perfect for blended learning including discussions in
groups. While a fast run-through of the object may take no more than
two teaching hours, I used four hours of teaching to help the students
get the most out of the materials.While the first learning object used a material derived from Danish
popular culture of the 1970s (with a song that every child growing up
in Denmark in the 70s know by heart) the second learning object takes
its material from the 1980s. And where the first material is primarily
audio-based, the second material presents both audio and visual
information to be used in the language work. The material used for this
learning object is a block of tv-commercials from the 1980s (and easily
recognizable as such) available from YouTube.The students are first
asked to identify the products each commercial in the block sells
making use of visual and audio information (this does not demand much
Danish language skill, but is fun and gives an overview of the
materials).Later the students are asked to engage particularly with
two of the commercials: one for Ballantines Whiskey and one for Bounty
chocolade bars. As in the first object, the students are asked to
imitate the speak of the commercials, but before doing this they have
to do some work recognizing words, dividing running text into words,
putting words in order, locate mistakes, and focus on pronounciation of
some challenging Danish vowel sounds, while using the visual
information and the sounds for guides to the mood and meaning of the
individual commercials. Finally students record their speak for the
advertisements using Audacity and tries to make it fit the visual side
of the adverts.After the learning object is completed students are
asked to come up with their own slogans in Danish for products they
care about, making use of words and phrases they have learned in the
material. A first run though of the learning object may span two hours
of class time, but 4 hours is recommended in order to allow students to
work thoroughly with recording their speaks and creating their own
commercials. Technically advanced students may want to make a real
commercial using video recording or powerpoint slideshow in addition to
the sound recording. The students (8 beginners students) found that this was both an
entertaining and challenging learning object that got them started with
Danish in a way they felt was both encouraging and motivating.One
student summed up the general opinion of the group: "The exercise is
set up in a way that makes it less intimidating than it should be when
trying to, as a beginner, grasp a song in a foreign language. The
approach also allows for one to build up confidence- upon first
listening to the song, I couldn't understand a word,but the way in
which the exercise is set up allows one to build confidence and
eventually understand a great deal of the song."The students found
that the exercises build up from the very simple to the advanced in a
progressive and logical way, and furthermore felt that the material
encouraged independent work. It was also mentioned that the use of the
digital learning object encouraged a great variety of language skills
including speaking, writing and listening in a natural and
comprehensive way. Although some students came to digital learning
without prior experiences, and were somehow sceptical, they all
experienced that the interface and the exercises were simple and
straightforward to navigate and understand.Apart from giving the
students a good start with the Danish language, the students also felt
that it was fun and interesting to learn a little bit about Danish
culture in the 1970s. It has been both challenging and motivating to create language
learning materials for the digital classroom using the Learning Object
Creator. It has allowed me to polish the individual steps in the
progress of learning with a specific language object, and has made me
focus on the scaffolding of learning in great detail.It has also
proved to be fascinating to find ways in which to teach with authentic
materials right at the beginning of an ab initio language class, and to
find materials that meet the personal and intellectual curiosity of
mature university students - this has meant a good-bye to the usual
introduction learning to say your name and talk about where you are
from etc. I have also found that the materials work well in a blended
learning situation wherein students quickly started to compare work and
to help and motivate each other. I could see that the students were
entertained and were curious to find out more about the language and
the cultural content as soon as the class was over. What was especially
challenging, and where I have to make some adjustments, is in the
objective of having students recording their own voices speaking
Danish at this early stage. Danish pronunciation is very challenging
and the students were (happily) confused about the discrepancies
between written and spoken Danish. The material showed the challenges,
but were also a bit too challenging, and there were too many of the
students who were very close to giving up making their speak sound
Danish. Later on in the course, the materials recorded in relation to
the learning objects were fun to return to, because the students could
then compare how much their pronunciation had progressed over the
course. Another positive side to beginning the course in this way for
the course as such was that it introduced students to recording their
voices, which was a great help throughout the course, where students
were asked to do similar things with technology. I experienced that
there is a great difference as to the technical skills of the students
when they arrive (not surprising I guess), but it is a great challenge
to teach with so many digital tools students who might not use
computers for anything else but writing in word and checking emails.Some students found it challenging to find video clips on YouTube and
to work the sound player and recording software - this, I found,
demanded more in-class work on my part than I had prepared. I was also
happily surprised to find, in the evaluations, a student group who was
able and very thoughtful in their evaluation of learning processes and
materials. Counter to what I had imagined, the students showed very
aware of the forms and ways in which we present our learning, which has
motivated me to continue creating more and more varied digital tools
for teaching and learning Danish.Register your interest in studying at SELCS and  receive important information about open days, applications, and more.
 

   Register your interest

 

				    Scandinavian Studies
				    SELCS
				The Icelandic teachers decided that students needed a self-study
resource to assist them in exploring and training their Icelandic
pronunciation. From experience, this is a central part of beginners
language learning that is not traditionally practiced extensively in
classes. Focus is here generally on writing and grammar. The most
time-consuming part of the Icelandic project - an online
course on Moodle introducing students to Icelandic pronounciation - was
the technical side. The teacher used Mp3 recorders and sound editing
software (Audacity) to create the soundfiles, and had to learn how to use the
Moodle platform to embed the sound files in an intuitive way. Then the
scaffolding of the course needed to be decided on, and only towards the
end of the project was there time to explore
interesting new ways of using the Moodle site to create alternative
exercises with pronunciation. However, turning away from passive repetition of
sounds and words, the Icelandic teacher created exercises with
entertaining ways of recognizing Icelandic pronounciation using the
Moodle Quiz function. The result is a comprehensive website that
introduces and trains students in Icelandic pronunciation, including
well-produced sound files, engaging quizzes and a good use of the
Moodle platform and its functions, providing an easily and logically
navigated learning environment. 
The advantages of this material is that
it can be used both in class and as a self-study tool. It is an
invaluable reference database and could easily be integrated into an
Icelandic online course. Evaluating the material we have discussed
further ways in which the material can be used in teaching, allowing
students to engage with pronunciation more actively by producing and
uploading their own soundfiles, or using authentic language 
web-resources such as Icelandic tv, film, songs etc. There are a number 
of ways in which this resource can be used in
teaching in a blended-learning environment, and how it will be used and
developed in the future will be interesting to follow. This project was originally conceived by Daisy Neijmann, but she asked me to take over the project, which I very willingly did.  The main reason for the need for this material is the fact that
Icelandic has a very high entry level, especially grammatically, which
means that grammar takes up a lot of time on the beginner level. This
means that pronunciation practice (both students practicing their own
pronunciation and recognising correct sounds) cannot be practiced fully
in the class-room. Furthermore, Icelandic has very few pronunciation
variations (dialects) and native speakers have limited experience in
understanding nuanced ('foreign-sounding') pronunciations, which makes
it extra important for our students to obtain correct pronunciation.Some material already existed from previous years, which has been used
in classes. I structured the course on the basis of this existing
material. Then with the help of Sybille, I recorded a great portion of
the material, before sitting down and editing the Moodle-site, with
great help and assistance from Jakob. My original plan had been to only
use this as a read-and-repeat practice, but with time I have developed
an interactive section, which is mostly based on sound recognition. The
material is open for further development and editing which I hope will
make it even better in years to come.
The technical part was a small challenge, learning to use audacity and
the different aspects of the Moodle-site. Also, choosing the
appropriate tools in the interactive part of the course. I've learned a
lot in the process, and I expect to be able to use online resources in
a better way in my future teaching and research presentation.
The material is not fully finished, and I really expect it to continue
to be a work in progress, which Daisy and other Icelandic teacher may
be able to add to/edit in the future. As it looks now, it's a 12-lesson
course, which can both be accessed and used in lessons, but most
emphasis is on students taking the time to actually sitting down and
practicing the pronunciation. I do see this as a course which students
do not really finish with, but is there for their needs when they feel
that they need to refresh their pronunciation, especially during leaves.
I believe that the material needs to be smoothed with time, probably
the interactive part especially, as it may be too easy or too difficult
for beginner levels. At the same time, I believe that the
listen-and-repeat will work for those who take the time and use it!
I'm certain that this material will be extremely useful in future
teaching. It will give the students a source to go to at the beginning
of their studies, and will hopefully work as an on-going source for
them throughout their studies.Register your interest in studying at SELCS and  receive important information about open days, applications, and more.
 

   Register your interest

 

				    Scandinavian Studies
				    SELCS
				 The Norwegian materials (The Norwegian Wiki) took shape in an elegant
symbiosis between our project and the launch of the UCL confluence
Wiki, spearheaded by Chris Dillon, who is, fortunately, also learning
Norwegian. The wiki presents an already large database of original
texts in Norwegian created by Margrethe Alexandroni, aimed at various language
levels, with exercises focusing on their language work, and, for some of
the texts, audio files where the texts are read aloud. The texts come
with comprehensive introductions to Norwegian culture and history, and
the screens have been designed with original photographs from Norway
that add meaning to the presented texts. A host of the time
allowed for creating this material went into learning how to use the
new UCL wiki, to create and make available the original texts, sound
files and images on this platform. In this we are
grateful for the assistance of Chris Dillon. The material presents a
body of texts and other media that are designed specifically with the
needs of our Norwegian students in mind, with a focus on creativity and
imagination that engages students in a different way than traditional
language materials.The wiki proved a particularly useful medium for
these texts. First of all, the wiki is more user friendly than
traditional websites for teachers, who wish to create and publish their
own materials - as the Norwegian teacher expressed it in a UCL forum
for teaching and learning while presenting her wiki, "if I can do it,
everybody can!".Texts and exercises can be easily modified in the wiki,
and students have easy and global access to the materials for
self-study or preparation for classes. Secondly, the link-structure of
the wiki makes it possible for students to get immediate references to
linguistic issues relating to the texts, for instance by clicking on
words in a story students will access the grammar section of the wiki.Students are also encouraged to find their own way through the various
levels of texts and exercises due to the navigation pattern of the
wiki, and do not progress in a linear fashion as in a traditional book.
This means that students can individualise their engagement with course
materials and work specifically on texts and exercises they find
particularly interesting and challenging - as a social medium the wiki
allows students to take more active part in their own language
learning. It goes without saying that learning how to use a wiki for
preparing texts and other media for teaching Norwegian, will prove an
invaluable experience and an important skill to be used in possible
future distance learning programmes in the Scandinavian languages. Evaluating the materials we have discussed how to include the creative
work of students themselves in the wiki. The wiki is a social medium
that allows a group of users to create and modify texts (as made famous
with Wikipedia). During the work on the UCL wiki, students were allowed
individual space to create their own texts individually and in groups.
The medium allows, then, students to become creators of language, and
it will be explored in the future how the presented materials in the
Norwegian Wiki can be designed to integrate this part of the wiki into
the students' work with the texts. Additionally, the Norwegian teacher
will be adding texts and exercises to the wiki, and may find funding
for assistance to further develop the platform.  My initial idea was to make use of material that I had written over the
years. It was my intention to present students with information about
Norway not normally found in textbooks. Norwegian textbooks tend to be
attractive, (colourful illustrations etc.), but the content is often
extremely dreary, and of little or no interest to people studying
Norwegian outside Norway. It is my opinion that students will learn
more from an imaginative and creative text than from a text
that although worthy comes across as too factual and dull. With the technical help of Chris Dillon the material was put onto wiki
pages.  I found the UCL wiki very easy to work with. The material was
subsequently cleaned up and links were made from grammatical
explanations to relevant texts and grammatical exercises. The major
challenges were to present the material in a systematic manner. This
work is still not finished.  I must admit that I found student enthusiasm rather disappointing. 
They did not use the material, i.e. they did not post me exercises on
the pages assigned for student work, even though I strongly encouraged
them to do so and we practiced it in Language Space.  Students used to
enjoy my texts very much when using my material in the traditional way,
i.e. working from a sheet of paper. They would laugh at my stories
saying: 'You wrote this, didn't you?'When the material was
transferred to the wiki the students appeared less positive.  Thinking
about it now I realize that it was not the material itself that was the
problem. Possibly the students would have felt more enthusiastic if I
had been more in command on our visits to LS. They must have noticed
that I was outside my comfort zone, and therefore could communicate no
great enthusiasm for digital learning.  When asked, their conclusion
was that using the material digitally in Language Space made a nice
change, but all in all they preferred the traditional class room
approach. Sibylle was a great help and support and I don't know what I would have done without her.  The students were definitely on my side though. Once
I used an ordinary black marker pen on the electronic board by mistake.
I only noticed it done when I was half way through a word. The students
became quite hysterical digging out tissues and wanting to help wipe it
off before it dried. Fortunately there was a bottle of cleaning
solution at hand, which solved the problem. That was when I
realised that they really were on my side.  What I'm trying to say is
this: The problem was neither the material itself nor my relationship
with the students.  It was the fact that we were all on unfamiliar
territory and that the students must have picked up on me feeling
insecure and out of my depth.   I strongly believe in the value of oral work and free
expression.  Being an experienced language learner I know that speaking
a new language is more difficult than writing it.  This is why although
enthusiastic about my digital material I would never abandon my
interactive teaching method.  In the Department of Scandinavian we are
fortunate enough to work with small groups which is ideal
for a personal approach.        Also; the present generation of students may be less
enthusiastic about computers than the previous generation. For today's
youngsters computers have always been there, which is why they might be
less keen on them.  The sense of wonder and exitement is gone. The above report was written during the summer of 2009.  I have since added to the material in the following ways:  I have enjoyed working on the project and intend to keep working
with the material and develop it into an on-line text book with grammar
and links to relevant texts and exercises. As the same text often
contains several grammatical problems, different grammatical
explanations will have links to the same text. This work has already
started. Where appropriate Chris and I have also made links to
relevant pages in Wikipedia. I will continue to encourage students to
write things in their assigned spaces.  High quality student work will
be incorporated into the main body of the wiki. Last year I told my first year students, in particular,
to use the material for revision and to post it to me for marking and
comments, but none of them did so. This led me to believe that the
material is perhaps better suited to good old-fashioned paper. 
This year we spent only a couple of sessions in Language Space to
better familiarize students with the material on offer. These days
most students have their own lap top or PC.  This is good, as they are
now working with the material from their own work stations. Once
the students get used to finding their way around the Norwegian
wiki they will have a large body of useful and interesting material at
their disposal; and this I believe will be the main function of the
Norwegian wiki pages.  Also, the creative and imaginative nature of much of the
material has encouraged students to work creatively, which in turn has
encouraged them in their use of the Norwegian language.  They
have embarked on imaginative pieces of writing with great enthusiasm,
and sometimes produced work of some literary quality.  However, considering that students have different mindsets
and inclinations I believe that the material is sufficiently varied
for students of every preference to find something that they like and
can identify with.  Again I have to stress that without the technical support 
and input of Chris Dillon the Norwegian wiki would never have happened.
Register your interest in studying at SELCS and  receive important information about open days, applications, and more.
 

   Register your interest

 

				    Scandinavian Studies
				    SELCS
				  Unlike the other languages, I choose to create material for an
intermediate learner or learner-group. There may not be much variation
in the existing material for any learner level of Swedish, but the
higher up you get, the less there is, and I was particularly keen to
add something to the 2nd year (Intermediate) learning experience. The
advantages are that you can make more use of the target language
throughout the material and engage directly with authentic material (in
this case the Astrid Lindgren website, her stories, quotes etc), but it
also raises continuous questions of how to best set up the exercises,
in which language to write the instructions, and of course just what
level we can assume the learners have reached. In one way, the 'easier'
material to write is perhaps that which starts from scratch and assumes
no prior knowledge at all. The challenges of selection and progress are
still relevant, but you do in these instances start with as coherent as
possible a learner group. When writing for a collective that are
more likely to have reached very different individual levels, and in
very different ways, then the aspect of a cohesive and suitable
learning process within the material becomes more of a challenge to
achieve. For this material, I used my own 2nd year group/s as intended
'targets', and chose both the texts and the exercises with their level
and their learning background in mind. The subject matter that the
learning object engages with, the aspects of Swedish the exercises are
intended to teach, and the character of the exercises are all
components that I believe to be useful and interesting to that learner
group.   This does not mean that I found the selection process for either the
original material or the learning tasks straightforward. I wanted the
final learning object to have a relation to cultural knowledge and
preferably be based on existing, so called authentic, material which
could be accessed via the web. Using web-based source material was
another aspect I was keen to incorporate, as it is something I feel I,
and other teachers of Swedish, make very little use of, and which I
wanted to explore and practise with further. But these parameters are
wide ones, and still leaves the question of what cultural knowledge and
what authentic material. I considered famous Swedes in general (e.g
Nobel), topic-based areas like 'food' (this is still a great idea, and
one I hope to follow up on soon - Sweden like UK is currently very keen
on cooking programmes and Swedish television has a wonderful archive
section with food programmes from 50 years back.To this one could add
recipes, restaurant reviews etc., concentrating on general vocabulary
rather than a food-specific one, but still learning more about what is
close to a national obsession and therefore of value to any learner to
be familiar with), Swedish writers, etc. After investigating several of
these ideas, gathering potential material, and sketching possible
exercises, one of them seemed to suggest itself as an ideal starting
point: Astrid Lindgren. One of Sweden's most famous writers, and one
which has been widely read and translated across the world, Lindgren
wrote mainly for children, but her impact, work, and importance goes
beyond that of her books.She championed an attitude to children that
has for the last 40 years permeated Swedish society (and which is in
parts distinctly different to that of other cultures), and is through
her very persona someone who can inspire us all. She was funny, witty,
sharp, warm and humble, and is interesting both from a Swedish and a
generally human perspective. As with the food idea, my ultimate aim
would be to produce more of these learning objects based around other
interesting personalities. Whether or not this happens, I cannot think
of anyone else more suitable for the first instalment - Astrid manages
to be important both from a Swedish and a global perspective. Another
good reason for starting with Astrid is that her foundation has set up
the most amazing website, which is teeming with resources of many
kinds. The learning material relies directly on this website, making
tasks out of and in relation to texts found on it.  The other main consideration was what tasks to try and produce - or
perhaps more accurately what the learning aim and outcome would be. To
some extent my 'aim' is very simply to get them to 'learn more
Swedish'. Its unspecified nature derives from the wish to make the
learning tasks varied - the tool does not concentrate on any one kind
of vocabulary, grammar, or skill, but tries to achieve a micro-course
in itself by combining different types of exercises (reading, own
production, practise of vocabulary and grammar) and aspects of the
target language (words, expressions, grammar). This is a reflection of
partly a conscious pedagogy, and partly a very simple questionnaire I
had my then second year group to fill in. The questionnaire
asked what the students themselves considered important/unimportant to
work on in the course, and what type of work they thought to be most
effective/fun/pointless. The response was too thin to warrant a full
inclusion in this report, but from the few answers I did get the
disparity between students was very clear. Within a group that was to
some extent fairly homogenous in that they had almost all been through
the same Basic Swedish course the year before, I had respondents that
listed certain aspects of the course as most and least important
respectively! I don't wish to draw any further conclusions from this
very basic form of canvassing, but I do think it can high-light again
how very varied a group of learners any material needs to consider, and
that perhaps argues for us as teachers to take most of the
responsibility for what any course, activity, or exercise should look
like and contain.I could of course have chosen a specific area of
language to concentrate the learning object on, but here the size and
scope of this project suggested that this would be too limited. It may
be a way to go another time though, as both learning outcome and
material design could be worked on with a much greater focus.  Through discussion with Jakob and Ian I was however encouraged to
think beyond my natural 'what will we do this lesson to learn what I
think they should learn' to 'what can we produce this lesson'. I tend
to approach any lesson (course, exercise etc) with a clear idea of what
I wish the students to cover, practise or learn, and then work out what
tasks can get us there. The alternative approach that we discussed was
to start with a desired end product, and then use the lesson (course
etc) to learn the skills necessary to produce this.For the material at
hand this could for example be a pod-cast which presents Astrid
Lindgren to an audience who is not familiar with her. This is a
beautiful idea, and one which would both bring focus to the student
work and provide a chance to disseminate their work (and Astrid's
fame!) further. As my material stands this has not been included (yet),
which is perhaps a significant lack. But my primary aim remains the
practising of Swedish, and I think the learning object we have created
goes some way - if not all the way - towards making it at least
partially enjoyable in itself. Once I get to try the material out on
this years' 2nd year group though, I may well add a 'final task' beyond what is currently incorporated as a trial.  The material then on a basic level has two informative aims: to
teach and practise certain aspects of Swedish suitable for the
intermediate learner, relating to both vocabulary and grammar, and to
introduce Astrid Lindgren. The opening of the material is very brief
introduction of Astrid, and a picture of her (taken from the website),
clearly at an age well beyond 60, half-way up a tree. It is intending
to capture the imagination of the learner, making them wonder what this
might be all about.The first exercise capitalises on this, and
encourages the learner to first of all be imaginative and creative,
without at this point bringing in any substantial background or
limitations. Perhaps a tall order, but then it is almost impossible to
get it 'wrong'. Hidden in this task is the introduction of some key
words, like 'tree' and 'climb' (well, not so 'hidden' perhaps, they
form part of the instruction). The learner might know them, might need
to be reminded of them, or has actually never come across them before.
This first task ensures that before moving on, whatever the starting
point, the learner now has some tools with which to tackle the next
part.  There is no specific feedback given for this first task, apart from
'show others' or 'show teacher'. This will work for us, as we will use
the material in a class situation, but for the independent learner it
will have to work as a warm-up only. The instructions given are
intended to guide the own production, and as much as possible work as
'pre-feedback'. Once the students have thus started to engage with the
subject matter and the picture, they are given the quote the web-site
has paired with this particular photo. It is, as with so much Astrid
came out with, subtly humorous, ironic, and very, very true.The rest
of the learning object is based around this quote, picking out phrases,
words, and grammar that we engage with and practise further. Where I
have been able to, I try to use material and examples from the website
for the further exercises as well, and on occasion try to use
'Astrid-like' language in the instructions. There are also several
places where the student is directed to the website to check something
or see examples in context. The last exercises of this part (there is
really scope for making several more instalments of this, but in the
interest of making the material easier to work with, we decided to
finish the first part at this stage), is to look at all the other
quotes of Astrid the website lists (all gathered into one easy page),
choose a favourite one, and really learn it.  In order to achieve the ultimate aim of a pod-cast (or similar) on
Astrid created by the student, I think there would need to be another
learning object in addition to this one. I do have ideas for this -
using the history section on the website, incorporating film clips and
audio files (e.g Astrid reading her own stories), reading some, or part
of, the stories. But it takes me an immense time to create any little
part of this interactive material, and this is as far as I got within
the project time. The rest will have to be for the future.   I found this project very useful, very interesting, and very hard.
Having never worked with anything similar, I struggled with every
single aspect and step of the technical side. The first part of the
project also went round in circles a little - I needed to decide on
what I was going to do before I could usefully create any objects at
all, but I didn't know enough of what I could do in order to select the
most suitable material. With a lot of help from Jakob, Ian, and Sibylle
at various stages things eventually started to take shape, but as
mentioned earlier there was continuous evaluation and re-evaluation as
we worked.I am good at drawing up plans and overviews, and to some
extent need them before I feel prepared to start on the details, but
here I found myself having to re-work literally every single planned
exercise or task once we were trying to execute what I had planned
within the LOC. I also found myself re-considering what I was trying to
do, how and what I was expecting them to learn, what type of tasks I
wanted to create etc. at almost as frequent intervals. In my class-room
and book-based teaching I re-write the courses every year, and bring in
new material and new exercises constantly. But with limited outside
input and feedback on your own teaching style and strategies, you do to
some extent still repeat yourself. Of course we have to do this, we
simply don't have time to reinvent the wheel for every lesson. But I
still found it very interesting and very inspiring to sit down with
Jakob and Ian and discuss - with the starting point in our developing
new materials - why we do what we do, what other ways might work, what
other way of thinking about the learning process we are involved with
can change what happens at class-room level. It made the work with the
learning object itself no faster of course, instead adding to the time
the process took, but for me I think this was one of the most valuable
outcomes of the project.Even if I have ultimately managed to implement
very little of our discussions, and spent most of the project time
trying to get my head around the LOC as a tool, the value of this
process stretches much further. It has opened up many doors in the form
of technical awareness and increased courage (although I still have to
have Sibylle by my side to create anything at all, I am confident that
with enough practice I will eventually be able to drive my own LOC...),
and it has given me the chance to pit my own practises and beliefs
against others, giving me both many new ideas and a real appetite for
discussing and thinking more about teaching and learning with
colleagues - be it in forms of seminars like the CETL ones, work-shops,
own readings, departmental teaching projects (like our assessment
workshops this year which came directly on the back of this project),
or just a heated argument with Jakob over a beer.To me then, this
project has given me three very valuable experiences:Register your interest in studying at SELCS and  receive important information about open days, applications, and more.
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Alhambra PanoramicEstablished in 1828 by Antonio Alcalá
Galiano, the Department of Spanish, Portuguese & Latin American Studies was
one of the first in the UK and remains today a vibrant centre of academic
excellence. Housed in the School of European Languages, Culture & Society, the Department covers
all major areas of Hispanic and Lusophone literature, culture, history and
film. We run an annual documentary filmmaking summer school in Cuba, host vibrant
research seminars and cultural events, and sponsor a documentary film-making
project, the highly-acclaimed Rio Film School, in Rio de Janeiro.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				  The centre aims to encourage research on the life and work 
of the 
Peruvian poet, César Vallejo (1892-1938), as well as the larger remit of
 Peruvian literature and culture.  Founded at UCL on 6th  January 2003, 
the centre was inaugurated at Canning House on 30th September 2003 
by the then Peruvian Ambassador, Armando Lecaros-de-Cossío.  The 
founder-director is Professor Stephen M. Hart.  Funded by the British Academy, the project's principal aim is to provide a new 
biography of Santa Rosa de Lima (1586-1617) by drawing on the archives 
relating to Santa Rosa's beatification and canonisation held at the 
Secret Archive in the Vatican, in the Monasterio de Santa Rosa de Santa 
Maria and the Archivo Arzobispal, the latter two in Lima.The London Centre of César Vallejo Studies operates within a research network consisting of other Institutes such as: The centre has funded the publication of the following books: The has funded the production of several short films
 which trace the connections between film, poetry and Latin American 
culture: Read Pedros Granados' review: 'Stumbling Between Several Enemies?'  The Centre of César Vallejo Studies has a specialist research library on
 the work of César Vallejo which may be consulted by UCL students. Professor Stephen M. Hart  stephen.malcolm.hart@ucl.ac.ukT: 020 7679 3036
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Cine Club took a break in 2016-17 but will be back in 2017. Please see below for past events. 2015-2016 
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				tel: 020 7679 3109 ext: 33109email: spanish.latinamerican@ucl.ac.ukDr Zoltan Biedermanntel: 020 7679 3559ext: 33559email: z.biedermann@ucl.ac.ukThird Floor, Foster Court, Malet Place, off Torrington Place, London, WC1E 6BT (Bloomsbury Campus - see UCL maps)
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Alhambra Panoramic The Department offers a BA degree in Spanish and Latin American Studies,
along with a wide range of combined degree programmes including, but not limited to Portuguese,
French, Italian, German, Dutch and Scandinavian languages, Management,
Philosophy, and History of Art.Click here to view a list of modules for the 2017/18 academic year. At postgraduate level, the department runs the Hispanic Studies pathway
on the MA in Language, Culture and History, and offers doctoral training in a variety
of specialisms.  While all members of staff are prominent researchers, they are also
devoted to innovative teaching practices in the classroom. We offer small-group
language teaching, personal tutoring, visits to museums and galleries, and
special film screenings and seminars. Members of the department have been nominated
regularly for teaching awards. Our staff are widely known for their expertise, and have published
scholarly articles and monographs on famous authors and film directors such as
Miguel de Cervantes, Gabriel García Márquez, Javier Marías, César Vallejo,
Julio Medem, Lucrecia Martel, Machado de Assis, Jorge Luis Borges and many
others. The department's strengths include early-modern and modern literature,
cultural studies, history, and film studies. We are proud to include
Corresponding Members of the Peruvian Academy of Language and of the
Academy of the Portuguese Marine. Members of the department have participated
in numerous successful bids for collaborative research grants in Spain,
Portugal and Latin America. There is also a strong tradition of funded PhD activities.
We hold thriving research seminars with contributions from renowned national
and international scholars. The department takes full advantage of London’s cultural facilities,
such as public institutions, museums, theatres, libraries and research centres.We also foster
collaborations with leading international institutions such as the British
Library, the Peruvian Academy of Language, the Universidad Complutense de
Madrid, the Universidade de Campinas, the Universidade Nova de Lisboa, the
Documentary Film School in Havana, and the Rio Film School in Rio de Janeiro. All undergraduate SELCS students on a four-year degree, in any department, spend their Year 3 abroad.  Affiliate
 students (those coming from other institutions to spend a period of 
study at UCL) will study alongside UCL and international students,
benefiting from UCL's world-class teaching system and renowned 
academics.  Students from other UK universities and members of the public are welcome 
to study individual undergraduate and postgraduate modules from any of 
the SELCS departments. 
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Research
seminars and events to be held during the coming term at the Department of
Spanish, Portuguese, and Latin American Studies (unless otherwise indicated) all
take place in Foster Court 314 @ 1pm:11/10/17:
Intersections of Poetry and PhilosophyErika
Martínez (University of Granada): 'El viaje místico en la poesía
latinoamericana y española del siglo XX: un acercamiento
transatlántico 'Respondent: Humberto
Núñez-Faraco27/10/17: Lecture and Launch of the Bulletin of
Spanish Visual Studies (NB: 6-9pm, Gustave Tuck)Distinguished
Professor Paul Julian Smith (CUNY): ‘Transmedia Spain/Queer Mexico: Cinema,
Television, and Visual Studies’1/11/17:
Gender and Mysticism Through the AgesCorinna
Deppner (University of Erfurt): ‘Mystic Traditions in the Modern Period: Gender & Femininity in the
work of Clarice
Lispector & Teresa of Ávila’Stephen Hart
(UCL): ‘Santa Rosa de Lima: Peru’s Unofficial Mystic’Chair: Tyler
Fisher22/11/17: New Developments in Periodical and Childhood
StudiesLauren Rea (University of Sheffield): ‘Billiken Under Perón: The Politics of Childhood
in Argentina’s Longest-Running Children’s Magazine’Respondent: Maria Chiara D’Argenio"Nation Branding in Latin America"Felix Lossio Chavez (Newcastle University)Discussant: Paulo Drinot (UCL) Contested Authority and
Indigenous Film Collaborations: Sey Arimaku (Pablo Mora, Colombia, 2012)
and O Mestre e o Divino (Tiago Campos, Brazil, 2013)'Charlotte Gleghorn (University of Edinburgh) "The generation game: Podemos, Javier
Cercas and the (im)possibility of progressive politics in Spain" Duncan Wheeler (University of Leeds)19th-century fusion food, irony and
portuguesismo: Júlio Dinis’s scrambled Portuguese eggs Hazel Robins (Cambridge)‘Gathering Food Narratives: Problems, Surprises, Questions’Rhian Atkin (Cardiff)Mário Peixoto: Vanguard Film and Literature in Brazil in the 1930sMaite Conde (Cambridge) and Felipe
Botelho Correa (King's College London)The Role of the Producer in Latin American Cinemas Sarah Barrow (University
of Lincoln)Francisco
Umbral: discurso antinacionalista   Guillermo Laín
Corona (UNED, Madrid) Desmembramiento de un cuerpo, deriva de un
país: El caso de Rosa Faundes CavieresAlia Trabucco (UCL) Alberto Fuguet y su novela Aeropuertos: Una lectura de la igualdad política de las mujeres en
la literatura chilena de la post-transición a la democraciaDenisse
Lazo (Oxford)Displacements, decenterings: novels without
frontier (FAPESP/ British Academy)  Dr. Jorge de Almeida,
Literary Theory and Comparative Literature, University of São Paulo Dr
Ross G. Forman, English and Comparative Literary Studies, Warwick Professor
Sandra Vasconcelos, Professor of English Literature, University of
São Paulo Dr. Tara Puri, Lecturer
in Victorian Literature, University of Bristol 
  Jason Wilson (UCL)Jorge Luis Borges and W. H. Hudson. I will glance at how much Borges
knew about W. H. Hudson. He first mentioned Hudson’s work in 1925 as ‘más
nuestras que una pena’ and last mentions him in 1952. He read him in English,
but saw him as part of the ‘tragedia gauchesca’. But what did he read and who
was Hudson?  Professor John Kraniauskas (Birkbeck) Narco-Culture, Narco-Accumulation  

In this presentation I will reflect upon a constellation of notions that
together will outline the parameters of a concept: 'narco-accumulation'. I will
do so with the help of cultural materials: novels and films from the USA and
Mexico such as Don Winslow's The Power of the Dog and The Cartel as well
'narco-novelas' by Victor Hugo Rascón Banda (Contrabando), Elmer Mendoza (Balas
de plata) and Yuri Herrera (Trabajos del reino). Crucial to such an endeavour
are the geopolitical and cultural - including literary - histories of the
Mexican and US hinter- and border-lands. It is particularly to the history of
this non-national 'territory' that I will turn to understand the narco-present. Dr Javier Muñoz Basols (University of
Oxford)
 Del inglesismo al anglicismo: huellas y testimonios de la
influencia de la lengua inglesa en la tradición hispánica En esta ponencia haremos una
incursión en el análisis de la influencia croslingüística léxica 
(Muñoz-Basols
y Salazar 2016) que de manera recíproca han ejercido el inglés y el 
español a
lo largo de la historia. Para ello nos detendremos en el cotejo de 
huellas textuales
y de testimonios que nos permiten entender parte de la génesis de las 
actitudes
hacia los anglicismos en la tradición hispánica. Toda esta información 
nos
servirá para abordar una de las preocupaciones de mayor urgencia de la
lexicografía actual, la revisión del tratamiento de los extranjerismos 
en el Diccionario de la lengua española (DRAE), y que fenómenos como la
globalización, el multilingüismo, o la emergencia de nuevas variedades
dialectales, como es el caso del español estadounidense, ponen 
constantemente
en tela de juicio.Professor Daniel Balderston (University of Pittsburg)This
talk focuses on two manuscripts of Borges's "El jardín de senderos que se
bifurcan" (The Garden of Forking Paths), and will show how Borges
composed, both in early stages in composition notebooks  and in
subsequent copies (still much corrected) which are closer to fair or
presentation copies. It is part of a book I have just finished, How Borges
Wrote. The talk will include a PowerPoint presentation with images of the two
manuscripts.Dr Francisco J Hernandez Adrian (Durham University) Excess
and playfulness in Latin American film: the seascape scene from Y tu mamá
también to Post tenebras lux. In a
series of early 21st-century Latin American films, urban ruins and
‘naturescapes’ appear to be connected with images of economic catastrophe and
cultural decay on the one hand, and of social reconstruction and political
recovery on the other. While these images issue from specific local and
national contexts, an emergent, trans-regional and globally-inflected visuality
also suggests a planetary cinematic consciousness playfully exceeding
long-standing approaches to Latin American national cinemas. Focusing on two
films by Mexican directors Alfonso Cuarón (Y tu mamá también, 2001) and Carlos
Reygadas (Post tenebras lux, 2012), this talk considers the figure of the shore
or littoral zone in seascape scenes at the conceptual juncture of affective,
perceptive and sensorial cultural traffickings. Professor Catherine Boyle (King's College
London) Translating, Feminist Knots and Cultural History With reference to the idea of strong voices, this talk will
explore the relationship between the academic self and the questions that are
posed through the process of translation. In respect of my recent work, this
has led to the study of connections in social, labour and feminist histories
between Europe and Latin America. I will pose the questions through translation
processes related to three Chilean women: Gabriela Mistral, Isidora Aguirre and
Violeta Parra.
Dr Maite Conde (Cambridge University) - Wednesday 19 March 2014. Download abstract (PDF).
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 As one of the world’s top universities, UCL
excels across the humanities and social sciences sciences. SELCS has
an outstanding reputation for its teaching and research, with students taught
by and researching alongside world-class academics.  Home to the UK’s first professors in Spanish,
French, German, Italian and Dutch, SELCS brings together eleven languages, many
different disciplines and a global approach to understanding languages and
culture from the medieval period to the present.  SELCS offers students valuable skills for
employment at a time when language skills are strongly sought after by employers. These include the
ability to speak, understand and write in a foreign language, intercultural
understanding, translation and communication skills, and analytical rigour. Find out more about our Undergraduate Programmes, including details on applications and our year abroad.We offer a range of inter-disciplinary Taught Masters Programmes. Find out more and apply now.Our Research covers a broad range of topics, including  cultural history, digital humanities, film, and gender.Affiliate students are able to choose from a range of courses covering literature, linguistics, history, sociology, philosophy, art, film and other aspects of the cultures associated with the languages taught in SELCS.SELCS offers some scholarships and bursaries to students for specific areas of study. Students can also apply for funding through UCL centrally, and via external bodies. The admissions process differs depending on your chosen level of study. Find out more about these processes and how you can express your interest to study with UCL. Modern Languages graduates are highly valued by employers for their linguistic and cultural knowledge, and for their set of 
transferable skills. Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 Depending on your chosen level of study, you will need to
follow one of the following pathways in order to submit an application 
to study with us. Applications for Undergraduate Programmes should be made through UCAS
 (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants 
currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the 
process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based 
outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS. Please ensure you’ve read the guidelines and entry requirements for 
the Programme you wish to apply for before submitting your application. 
You can return to the Undergraduate Programme page, if you wish to revisit the Programme overview and entry requirements.If you have any questions about applying for any of the undergraduate courses in the School of European Languages, Culture and Society please do get in touch with Jo Wolff, Admissions Officer.
 

   Apply for Undergraduate Study

 
 If you are applying for Graduate Taught or Graduate Research 
Programmes, you will submit your application directly to the central 
admissions team at UCL. Please ensure you have read the Programme 
guidelines and entry requirements before submitting your application. 
You can return to the Graduate Taught page if you wish to revisit the Programme overviews and entry requirements. Formal applications for Graduate Research Programmes are made via the
 central UCL admissions pages but you are advised to contact us with specific questions before making an application. For questions on research opportunities, please contact Professor Mairead Hanrahan, SELCS Research Director or Jo Wolff, Admissions Officer.
 

   Apply for Graduate Study

 
Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				SELCS welcomes students from colleges and universities around the world who wish to gain credit for modules (courses) taken at UCL in order to graduate from their home universities.Students from abroad who spend a period of study at UCL via an Erasmus+, Exchange or Junior Year Abroad (JYA) scheme, or following an independent application, are classed as 'Affiliate Students'. As an Affiliate student you will: •   Study alongside UCL and international students,
benefiting from UCL's world-class teaching system and renowned academics.•   Have the flexibility to take modules across a range of
UCL subjects and departments, tailoring your module to your own particular
interests in this area.•   Have access to your academic Personal Tutor (known as an
‘Affiliate Tutor’).•   Be encouraged to integrate into UCL student life, with
access to events, societies and clubs both within SELCS and across
UCL.•   Benefit from the prime London location and resources through the surrounding libraries, museums and institutes.The School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) is a UCL department comprising six language sub-departments: Dutch, French, German, Italian, Scandinavian Studies and Spanish, Portuguese & Latin American Studies. Affiliate students are able to choose from a range of modules covering literature, linguistics, history, sociology, philosophy, art, film and other aspects of the cultures associated with the languages taught in SELCS.While at UCL, Affiliates follow a programme of study to the same credit level as regular UCL students. This comprises 60 ECTS (32 US credits) in an academic session or 30 ECTS (16 US credits) if you are here only for semester 1 (term 1) or only for semester 2 (both term 2 and term 3 respectively).You may well find that during your studies at UCL you are expected to undertake significantly more individual and independent study outside of classes than you are used to. As a result, you may also have fewer classes per week than at your home institution. Attendance on all classes at UCL is compulsory.In SELCS we admit students in both September and January in three different categories:•   SELCS as first or only named home department:You must take 50% of your modules in SELCS. The other 50% may be taken in SELCS or in other UCL departments, subject to space and prerequisites. It is important to note that SELCS does not manage module registration outside of this department and cannot guarantee places in other UCL departments.•   SELCS as second named home department :You must take 50% of your modules in your first named department at UCL, and 25% within SELCS. The remaining 25% may be taken in other UCL departments (including SELCS and your first named department), subject to space and prerequisites, and any local regulations of your first named department.•   Affiliate students from other UCL departments:We welcome students from a wide variety of departments and disciplines across UCL to SELCS modules, subject to space and prerequisites. More information on our module registration process for non-SELCS students and relevant contact details can be found here.If you are looking to apply as an Erasmus or Exchange student, please check your university has an appropriate agreement in place with UCL SELCS. Before students apply, partner universities should submit their nominations to SELCS Study Abroad Officer via selcs.studyabroad@ucl.ac.uk.Applications should be e-mailed to the central UCL Admissions Office, via affiliatestudents@ucl.ac.uk. To check your application status or ask questions about the process (including visa queries), please e-mail the Admissions Office or call +44 (0) 20 3108 4400.We look forward to welcoming you at SELCS! 
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				MA students from Ecole Normale Supérieure (ENS) de Lyon in France and from Scuola Normale Superiore (SNS) di Pisa in Italy are welcome to study in SELCS via Erasmus+.All SELCS Affiliates take a minimum of 50% of their programme of study within SELCS. They may take the remaining 50% in any UCL department or programme, including SELCS, subject to the availability of places on modules (courses) and provided that they meet the prerequisites for modules that they wish to attend.Each UCL module has a code, which indicates which department or language sub-department runs it (e.g., SPANG***, SCANG***) and a title (e.g "Nomadic Literature"). Please note that graduate students (also called postgraduate/PG or Master/MA students) must choose graduate modules only. A combination of undergraduate and graduate modules is not permitted. Graduate modules are indicated by the 'G' following the departmental or language code, e.g. ITALG012, GERMG032. Each UCL module is assigned a weighting, measured in 'credits’. This weighting will either be 15 UCL credits or 30 UCL credits. These can be translated into ECTS as follows:•   15 UCL credits = 7.5 ECTS•   30 UCL credits = 15 ECTSFor queries relating to PG module registration in SELCS, please contact SELCS Postgraduate Officer.A full listing of available modules will be sent to accepted students. It will give you further details including summary of content, credit value, timetabling and assessment information.On arrival at UCL, students will be able to discuss their module choices with the academic and administrative staff in the departments where they intend to take modules.All module selections must be agreed with your home institution.Recommended ModulesSome Advanced ELCS modules (module codes ELCSG***) are available to graduate affiliates. Students follow the same classes as undergraduate students but in addition attend seminars run exclusively for them. They also take a different form of assessment from undergraduate students. All incoming affiliate students are expected to attend International Student Orientation Programme (ISOP), which is organised by central UCL International Student Support (ISS) team. The ISS team is dedicated to providing support to all non-UK students at UCL, including guidance on welfare and various practical matters. Please visit their website for pre-arrival advice and useful information about life in London and settling in at UCL. You may also contact the ISS team for further advice, via internationalsupport@ucl.ac.uk.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				•   Affiliate students starting in autumn are expected to arrive in London on Monday 17th September to attend International Student Orientation Programme (ISOP) which begins on 18th September in the morning.•   Affiliates starting in January are expected to arrive in London on Tuesday 2nd January to attend ISOP which will begin on 3rd January in the morning.•   Students arriving late should e-mail selcs.studyabroad@ucl.ac.uk and also refer to advice published here.To access UCL academic calendar, please click here. Please note that Orientation Programme begins 1 week before the official start of term.•   Semester 1 = autumn term (teaching and assessment) / slightly shorter than 3 months•   Semester 2 = spring term (teaching) + summer term (assessment) / 5 months in total•   SELCS Affiliates must take a minimum of 50% of their modules/credits in SELCS. They can take the remaining 50% in SELCS or in other UCL departments, subject to availability. SELCS cannot guarantee places outside of this department, therefore, students should be prepared for the possibility of taking all modules in SELCS.•   Students can take modules worth up to a maximum of 30 ECTS per semester / 16 US credits (for example, 4 modules worth 7.5 ECTS each).•   If approved by their home university, students can take a reduced number of credits (minimum 22.5 ECTS per semester).After arrival, students will be able to discuss their module choices with the SELCS Affiliates Tutor and with other academic and administrative staff in the departments where they intend to take modules, and to make changes if necessary. •   Erasmus students from partner universities in France, Italy and Spain must take the following translation module(s) for the duration of their study at SELCS (worth 7.5 ECTS per semester).•   Students who would not get any credits at their home university for their compulsory module(s) should report it to selcs.studyabroad@ucl.ac.uk before their arrival, so that they can be exempt from this requirement.• Translation into English I (FREN4005) Term 1• Translation into English II (FREN4006) Term 2These modules are also available as an option to other affiliates.• English Academic Writing and Translation Skills ITAL6002 - Full Year ITAL6004 - Term 1 only ITAL6001 - Term 2 onlyThese modules are available only to Italian native speakers.• Spanish Language III / Advanced Spanish Language for Affiliates (Translation from Spanish into English) SPAN4001A - Term 1 SPAN4001B - Term 2These modules are also available as an option but only to SELCS affiliates from Latin America.•   Modules in 2017-18: Click here for a list of  modules currently available to affiliate students.•   Modules in 2018-19: A list of available SELCS modules will be available in summer 2018.Each module description should say if the module is run in term 1 or term 2. For exact teaching times, please check the UCL Common Timetable (weeks 6-10/12-16 indicate term 1 and weeks 20-24/26-30 - term 2). Please see the following document for step-by-step instructions on how to check your timetable (PDF file).Some modules (for example, ELCS*) are taught in the form of one lecture for all students and a number of small-group seminars. Students must attend all lectures and one specific seminar group to which they will be allocated after they arrive in London. Please be aware of the possibility of module clashes and that all timetables might be subject to changes.SELCS Affiliates can take up to 50% of their modules/credits in other UCL departments, subject to availability and prerequisites for modules. More information about modules offered by other UCL departments can be found on their websites or via Study Abroad Guide.To help you navigate the many differing procedures in various UCL departments to register for modules, please refer to the Affiliate Registration Procedures 2017-18 (PDF file) which also provides contact details for each department. Please carefully read and follow their instructions.Please refer to additional information for module registration in these UCL departments:•   Arts & Sciences (BASc) - PDF file•   Hebrew & Jewish Studies - PDF file•   Psychology & Language SciencesPlease be aware of the possibility of timetable clashes with your SELCS modules and that all timetables might be subject to changes.Please see this page for Erasmus documentation queries.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				•   Learning Agreements should be e-mailed to SELCS via selcs.erasmus@ucl.ac.uk. Please note this mailbox is monitored only for submission of the incoming students' Erasmus documentation. For other queries, please e-mail Ania at selcs.studyabroad@ucl.ac.uk.•   If you are already in London, please bring your completed learning agreement to SELCS office and ask for Stafano, who will sign it on behalf of Ania. Stefano's current office hours are: Mondays & Wednesdays: 8:30am-12:30pm & 2pm-3:30pm and Tuesdays: 8:30am-12:30pm.•   If your agreement was prepared by your university and
 has different information than below, please inform them about our 
correct details, so that they can amend your 
agreement before you arrive:Please bring your Arrival / Departure forms to the UCL Student Centre (click here for opening hours). UCL Student Centre starts signing Arrival forms on 25th September (or 8th January for January starters). Affiliate students may request to have their forms signed retrospectively, with the Orientation Programme start date.•   If a student already left UCL, confirmation of attendance can be requested from UCL Student Centre via studentstatus@ucl.ac.uk.Although the UCL autumn term is less than 90 days, it should still be acceptable as a full academic term for the purpose of Erasmus mobility for studies. These rules are specified by individual national agencies in each country and application of this rule seems to vary, however, please note the following document in the link below which explains that minimum duration of a study period is 3 months, or 1 academic term or trimester (please see the small print for point 25 at the bottom of page 36). The above information was passed on to all our partner universities.If students are required by their home institution to spend at least 3 months (90 days) at UCL, we recommend that they apply for semester 2 instead, which consists of term 2 and term 3 respectively and lasts 5 months (from early January to early June). We currently do not complete any Transcripts of Records (Part 5 of Erasmus Learning Agreement 'After the Mobility') because these are replaced by final UCL transcripts.•   Autumn Term Students:Information will be updated soon. •   Full Year and Spring Semester Students:Exam results are usually released on Portico (online student records system) around mid July. After that, the central UCL Registry starts producing and sending out all transcripts, which should reach your home university (Erasmus Coordinator) by the end of August. If your transcript is not received by then, it should be reported to UCL Registry via transcripts@ucl.ac.uk.If a student requires an earlier transcript for their Master application, a request must come from their home university by e-mail to selcs.studyabroad@ucl.ac.uk. We will then be able to prepare an interim, provisional confirmation of results.Any student who has failed a module during the year will be offered a second and final attempt to resit in the summer late assessment period, which will take place in late August, with the results (and final UCL transcript) processed by mid-September. Late August assessment period is the same for all students (including affiliates who studied at UCL only in autumn term).Affiliate students will have to signal their intention to resit once the results are available. Students must request permission from their home university to be able to resit. To request a resit formally, a confirmation of approval must be e-mailed by the home university to selcs.studyabroad@ucl.ac.uk. 
        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				IMPORTANT: • Modules may be subject to change.• Modules starting with codes: DUTC*, FREN*, GERM*, ITAL*, PORT*,  SCAN* and SPAN* might be subject to any module-specific prerequisites (such as language proficiency). Please check the descriptions.• Modules starting with codes: ELCS6* and LITC*, for which there are no prerequisites, are taught and assessed in English.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Students from other departments at UCL are welcome to request to take SELCS modules on the understanding that:•   They have permission from their home department at UCL to take a module within SELCS•   There is space on the module•   There are no timetable clashes with their other modules•   Students meet any prerequisites required by individual modules (please check module descriptions for more information)When allocating modules, we give priority to SELCS students and SELCS affiliates, therefore, we will aim to confirm whether you have secured your place on requested modules by the end of Induction week. We advise that you have reserve options in place in case it is not possible for us to allocate you to requested SELCS modules.If you need to request changes once teaching has started, please contact the relevant administrative staff (as listed above).To make module changes on Portico, please contact your main department.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Modern Languages graduates are highly valued by employers for their linguistic and cultural knowledge, and for their set of 
transferable skills. SELCS graduates go on to work in varied roles across the public, 
private and charitable sectors, as well as working as language consultants and teachers. Some of our recent graduates have been employed by the following organisations:SELCS students benefit from careers advice that is provided by the UCL Careers Service.
 The UCL Careers Service provide a range of services including: short or
 long 1-1 meetings to discuss career choices, reading CVs, conducting 
practice interviews or assessment centre techniques, and providing 
access to written guides on many career pathways.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern European Language Scholarships (MELS) were launched in 2014 and aim to attract the most outstanding language students to UCL. Five awards are made each year. Applicants must be:Awards consist of £5,000 per year for the duration of the scholar’s programme (to a maximum of four years). Renewal of the scholarship is subject to an average grade of 2:1 being achieved each year. The scholar will be given the option of whether to receive the award as maintenance or tuition fee funding (or a combination of the two).Once you have confirmed UCL as your ‘firm acceptance’ choice, through UCAS, on an eligible programme offered by the School of European Languages, Culture & Society or a language based programme offered by the School of Slavonic & Eastern European Studies, you will automatically be considered for a Modern European Language Scholarship. There are no additional documents required for the scholarships and there is no separate scholarship application form. Selection is primarily on the basis of academic merit – financial circumstances are not taken into account. Candidates will be required to demonstrate their commitment to UCL’s aims of global citizenship, cultural diversity, and a multi-disciplinary approach to their studies.Selection will be made by a joint panel of academics from SELCS and SSEES.The selection panel meets in early September and successful candidates can expect to be notified by mid-September. Awards will only be made to students who have registered to study at UCL. *NOTE: All scholarship and student funding schemes are subject to availability of funds, and details given here are subject to change at any time. Potential applicants are urged to check information regularly to ensure they are aware of current procedures, deadlines etc.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The information below applies to SELCS students of all departments (Dutch, French, German, Italian, Scandinavian Studies
and Spanish & Latin American Studies). SELCS is part of the AHRC consortium London Arts and
Humanities Partnership (LAHP), along with King’ College, London and the School of
Advanced Study.  More information of these awards, including how to apply can
be found on the LAHP website.NOTE: Applications for
joint-supervision between two of the partners of LAHP, whilst not necessary,
are particularly encouraged.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Our Research covers a broad range of topics, including  cultural history, digital humanities, film, and gender.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Applications should be submitted 
online. When doing so, remember to print off a copy of your online 
application for your own records.UCL offers conditional places to applicants who have not 
completed their undergraduate or MA degrees programmes. Candidates should inform 
the UCL Registry via the UCL Select Admissions Portal as soon as they 
know their results.   
Students can begin their research degrees at any time of year, so there 
are no deadlines for admission. It may take up to six weeks for applications to be processed. Overseas applicants must leave
 time to complete the formalities for clearance to enter the UK, which 
can take some time.Applicants intending to apply for scholarships will 
need to complete the application process before applying for 
scholarships.  Scholarship deadlines usually fall in early spring. For 
information consult the Funding tab. We recommend that candidates begin their degrees in 
September, where possible, as various funds (such as the AHRC) work to an 
academic calendar. Candidates for a research degree  normally need  an MA 
degree in an area of study appropriate to their research proposal, or 
else an equivalent qualification from overseas.   The minimum programme length for the MPhil and PhD degrees 
is two calendar years of full-time study or the equivalent in part-time 
study. Usually PhD degrees take at least three years full-time study or 
the equivalent in part-time study.The examination for both degrees is 
by thesis. The maximum word lengths of MPhil and PhD theses are 60,000 
and 100,000 words respectively. Please contact the Admissions Officer for advice about the application procedure and the progress of your application.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				All research projects using personal data must be registered with Legal Services before the data is collected. This includes projects approved by the Joint Research Office. Form 2 should be used to register most projects. For those approved by the Joint Research Office Form 9 should be used. Both forms can be downloaded from https://www.ucl.ac.uk/finance/legal/dp-foi-overview. They should be completed electronically and sent to data-protection@ucl.ac.uk with copies of any information sheets and consent forms that you are using.Projects using truly anonymised or aggregated information does not have to be registered with Legal Services and you do not have to worry about compliance with the Data Protection Act 1998. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				  SELCS and UCL offer several funding opportunities for research students. The SELCS funding panel will only consider your application for these scholarships if you have already completed the UCL procedure for admission as a postgraduate research student. The procedure can take up to four weeks. Applicants should ensure that they leave time for referees to submit their references.Information about departmental scholarships will be added to this page once funding has been confirmed. In the meantime, you may wish to research the scholarships and awards available to the UCL-wide community on UCL's central Funding page.Applications, references and letters of recommendation for the GRS, ORS and  Wolfson Scholarships should be sent directly to Dr Julia Wagner in the SELCS post-graduate office. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				SELCS has some limited
funding to enable its Graduate Students to carry out their research and attend
conferences. Students wishing to apply for this funding should complete the
form available here and send it to the SELCS Research Director, Professor
Mairéad Hanrahan.Application Form:documents/pgr-fundsRegister your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The School regularly advertise teaching opportunities to its 
postgraduate research students during their second-, third-year of study and, if 
appropriate, during their ‘writing-up’ year. Only exceptionally are 
first-year research students asked to teach.Part-time students may 
begin teaching in their third year. Teaching can be of language or 
content courses; the SELCS Writing Lab also has positions for 
postgraduate research students. Positions are advertised as they arise via the Moodle handbook to all SELCS postgraduate students (irrespective of their 
departments).Advertisements usually ask students to submit a CV 
and cover letter and, if the applicant is shortlisted, to attend an interview.For further information contact J.Wagner@ucl.ac.uk. All PGTA vacancies within SELCS and other schools and departments of are advertised on the Faculty Intranet.
Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 Students currently enrolled on a PhD overseas can apply to study at UCL 
as a visiting research student to conduct Research here towards their 
PhD overseas. You can apply to spend 3 to 12 months at UCL undertaking 
research which is complementary to the Doctoral/PhD project at your 
'home' university.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				We offer a range of inter-disciplinary Taught Masters Programmes. Find out more and apply now.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
                
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				You can find out all the information about current modules taught for the current academic year on our website. This will generally include information about the content, reading lists and academic contacts. This information is a guide only and may be subject to change without notice. If you have questions about a module please get in touch with the relevant contact.For undergraduate modules which start with codes DUTC* (Dutch), FREN* (French), GERM* (German), ITAL* (Italian), PORT* (Portuguese),  SCAN* (Scandinavian), SPAN* (Spanish), LITC* (Comparative Literature) and LCUL* (Language & Culture) please get in touch with the individual language department.Interdepartmental modules are those starting with codes ELCS* and if you have questions about these please get in touch with the SELCS Undergraduate Officers. For postgraduate modules, please visit our Graduate Taught courses page, select your pathway, and you will find the module information there. For help with these please contact SELCS PG Officer.-   Year 1 modules-   Year 2 modules-   Final Year modulesThe School’s ELCS (European Languages, Culture and Society) modules
introduce students to a broad comparative, interdisciplinary and intercultural
approaches to the humanities in modules which complement those followed in
language-specific departments.-   ELCS modulesStudents from other UCL departments (including non-SELCS affiliates) may request to take SELCS elective modules.-   How to request modules at SELCSCome and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				  The School’s ELCS (European Languages, Culture and Society) modules
introduce students to broad comparative, interdisciplinary and intercultural
approaches to the humanities in modules which complement those followed in
language-specific departments. All ELCS modules are taught by the School’s
academic staff and Teaching Fellows and most comprise both core lectures and
small group seminars. Interdepartmental in scope, the modules develop
analytical skills and cultural competences that complement those taught in the
School’s six Departments. The range of topics typically includes:   All modules are taught in English and assessment is based on materials
exclusively in English. Students are, however, encouraged to read texts or
study other materials when possible in the original language and to contribute
to class discussion in the light of their specialist knowledge of a language or
languages and the cultures associated with them. With this in mind, each ELCS
module provides a forum in which students and staff of different departments,
including students from outside SELCS and affiliates from Europe and beyond,
meet and exchange ideas.  There are three types of ELCS modules, First Year, Intermediate and Advanced. 
ELCS1* and ELCS6* modules (First Year and Intermediate) are
 taught in the form of one core lecture and one of a number of 
small-group seminars per week over one term. Students must attend all 
lectures and the seminar group to which they are allocated. ELCS4* 
modules (Advanced) are taught in the form of weekly two-hour seminars 
over one term. Attendance is compulsory. All ELCS modules are valued at 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS each. ELCS1*** are core, introductory first year modules, reserved predominantly for SELCS first year students.Intermediate ELCS modules are designed for SELCS 
second-year students, SELCS  affiliate students and students from 
outside of SELCS. SELCS students are allowed to take one of the SSEES 
cross-cultural modules listed below in place of an ELCS module.Advanced ELCS modules are designed for final-year SELCS undergraduates.Each module comprises 20 contact hours of tuition, taught in either Term 1 or Term 2. Most modules follow one of SELCS’s standard forms of assessment.Some Advanced ELCS modules are available to MA students (incl. MA affiliates). 
The latter follow the same classes as undergraduate students but in 
addition attend additional seminars run exclusively for them. They take a
 different form of assessment from undergraduate students. Please 
contact the SELCS Postgraduate Office   for further advice.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Please note, these lists are provisional. Module options will be finalised as soon as possible.Term 1Term 2 Each module comprises 20 hours of tuition - 10 hours of 
lectures and 10 hours of seminar - taught usually either in Term 1 or 
Term 2, and is worth 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS. Most 
modules follow one of SELCS's standard forms of assessment.Please contact Karin and Jo at selcs.undergraduate@ucl.ac.uk for details. Graduate students (incl. graduate affiliates) - only modules with codes ELCSG*** are available.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 Term 1 Term 2Each module comprises 20 hours of tuition - 10 hours of 
lectures and 10 hours of seminar - taught usually either in Term 1 or 
Term 2, and is worth 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS. Most 
modules follow one of SELCS's standard forms of assessment.Please contact Karin and Jo at selcs.undergraduate@ucl.ac.uk for details. Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 Terms 1 & 2:Term 1:Term 2:Each module comprises 20 hours of tuition - 10 hours of 
lectures and 10 hours of seminar - taught usually either in Term 1 or 
Term 2, and is worth 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS.Most 
modules follow one of SELCS's standard forms of assessment.Please contact Karin and Jo at selcs.undergraduate@ucl.ac.uk for details. Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Students from other departments at UCL are welcome to request to take SELCS modules on the understanding that:•   They have permission from their home department at UCL to take a module within SELCS•   There is space on the module•   There are no timetable clashes with their other modules•   Students meet any prerequisites required by individual modules (please check module descriptions for more information) When allocating modules, we give priority to SELCS students, therefore, we will aim to confirm whether you have secured your place on requested modules by the end of Induction week.  We advise that you have reserve options in place in case it 
is not possible for us to allocate you to requested SELCS modules.  If you need to request changes once teaching has started, please contact the relevant administrators (as listed above).To make module changes on Portico, please contact your main department.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on 
offer and talk to members of academic staff. These events can be 
extremely valuable in helping you make an informed choice about what to study. The Open Days offer a variety of activities, 
including admissions talks, general talks on topics such as 
accommodation, finance and careers. There are also accommodation tours, 
faculty and information fairs, taster sessions, and much more.  The Open Days for 2017 are now finished, but you can find watch videos from the SELCS Subject talks below.You can find out more information about Open Days and campus visits here:
 

   Read more and register to attend UCL Open Days

 
Staff will also be representing SELCS at UCL's postgraduate Open Day in the autumn (date to be confirmed).
 

   Read more and register to attend UCL Open Days

 
 Watch our films from one of UCL's undergraduate open days in June this year to get a feel for what happens on the day.  Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 The flexible programme allows students to enhance their 
knowledge of the language of their choice, while offering the 
opportunity to take courses in history, 
literature and culture. The MA may be taken over one year full-time or 
two years 
part-time via different language pathways. Overview of Modules 2017/18 (including ELCS Advanced and Portugese modules)SELCS staff also provide the teaching across a range of 
interdisciplinary programmes available in SELCS or centres within the 
Faculty of Arts and Humanities.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				September 2018Optional qualifications: This degree is also available as a PG Diploma and a PG Certificate with fees set accordingly.Location: London, BloomsburyA minimum of an upper second-class Bachelor's degree in a relevant discipline from a UK university or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedFurther information can be found on our English language requirements page.Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website.UCL Dutch is the largest Centre for Low Countries Studies in the Anglophone world. It was here that Dutch first attained the status of a serious academic discipline and a chair in Dutch has been occupied almost continuously since 1919. In both teaching and research the department is an internationally recognised centre for excellence.UCL Dutch has one of the largest Dutch libraries outside of the Low Countries and hosts an annual Writer-in-Residence as well as regular research seminars by visiting lecturers and professors from the Netherlands and Flanders, together with exchange students ensuring close contact between the department and the Dutch-speaking countries.UCL's central location offers students easy access to London's extraordinary resources, including the major collection of Dutch and Flemish Art in the National Gallery, the Courtauld Institute of Art, and the Warburg Institute, among many others. The cultural offerings of the Dutch Centre Austin Friars, Flanders House, and the Dutch and Belgian embassies and associations, and a wealth of exhibitions, films and theatrical performances are all nearby.Department: School of European Languages, Culture & SocietyThe Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture & Society80% rated 4* (‘world-leading’) or 3* (‘internationally excellent’)Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website. Under the Language, Culture and History MA, UCL Dutch offers a comprehensive and intensive module of interdisciplinary study in the history and culture of the Low Countries. It also provides training in subject-specific and generic research skills, geared towards preparation for doctoral research.All MA programmes should add up to 180 credits. They can be taken as Taught or Research-Intensive Pathways, details are given below.Modules for 2017/18You will take the core course (30 credits), the dissertation (60 credits) and 90 credits-worth of other modules, at least 60 credits of which must be chosen from the language-specific pathway.You will take the core course (30 credits), the dissertation (90 credits) and 60 credits-worth of modules from the language-specific pathway.Compulsory ModulesorDutch Module Options These MA modules are designed as an extension to an existing undergraduate course and students taking it will taught along with the undergraduates following that course. MA students following these modules will be provided with five extra 'dedicated' seminars covering material not featured in the undergraduate modules. The examination of these modules, and the assessment for them, are different from the examination and assessment of the undergraduate modules.Elective modules offered as part of the MA Language Culture and History programme may be withdrawn in the event of low uptake.Other Module OptionsWith the agreement of the Programme Director, students may combine their interests in Dutch Studies with other areas or subjects taught across the various MA programmes.  Students may choose from:Students are advised to apply as early as possible due to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding (particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application deadlines.The programme is unique in the UK. It is suitable for students with a first degree or equivalent with an interest in Dutch language, history, culture and society, or the impact Dutch had or continues to have in the world. Reading knowledge of Dutch is required, but this can also be improved as part of the programme.For more information see our Applications page.Apply nowWhen we assess your application we would like to learn:Together with essential academic requirements, the personal statement is your opportunity to illustrate whether your reasons for applying to this programme match what the programme will deliver.Degree last modified on 6 January 2017 at 11:58 by UCL Publications & Marketing Services. Please contact us for content updates.As labour market intelligence by the University Council for Modern Languages (2011) points out, Dutch is one of the five most requested languages in the UK job adverts, ahead of Russian and even Chinese! This is due to the close economic and cultural ties between the Netherlands, Flanders and the UK. Moreover, the report points out that even if your trading partners speak English well, it still pays to speak their language, having developed intercultural skills as taught by UCL Dutch.As graduates with Dutch are rare this makes for a very vibrant employment situation, even in times of economic crisis. There is demand for graduates who can help overcome the shortage of teachers of Dutch and translators from Dutch into English. The demand for teachers is from adult education institutes and increasingly from higher and secondary education; in the case of translators it comes from Dutch, Belgian and European institutions, from translation agencies and from business.The programme, unique to the UK, will be of interest both to those who wish to enhance their knowledge of Dutch culture for professional purposes – in the field, for example, of education, media, commerce and tourism – as well as to students wishing to pursue their studies to a doctoral level.Degree last modified on 6 January 2017 at 11:58 by UCL Publications & Marketing Services. Please contact us for content updates.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.Tuition fees (2018/19)UK/EU:    £10,140 (FT) £5,120 (PT)Overseas:    £21,160 (FT) £10,740 (PT)  Download BrochureRegister interest in your chosen subjects. Receive notice of graduate open days, events and more.Register your interest
                                      URL:
                                      http://www.ucl.ac.uk/selcs/study/postgraduate-taught/language-culture-history-ma/language-culture-history-dutch-studies/tel%3A+44%20%280%2920%207679%203096
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				September 2018Optional qualifications: This degree is also available as a PG Diploma and a PG Certificate with fees set accordingly.Location: London, BloomsburyA minimum of an upper second-class Bachelor's degree involving specialisation in French from a UK university or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard. Applications from students who do not have formal qualifications in French, but who are competent in the language, will be considered.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedFurther information can be found on our English language requirements page.Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website.UCL has a renowned tradition in both teaching and research in French, dating back to its foundation in 1826 and continuing to the present day. UCL is at the leading-edge of current debate in French, which involves challenging the boundaries of French studies and contributing to its remapping. Students are taught by nationally and internationally renowned experts in their fields.There is a thriving research culture in the school: students can attend and participate in an extensive programme of seminars. Students also have access to conferences held at the Institute of Modern Language Research and are welcome to participate in its graduate forum.The department has excellent research facilities, including an extensive library of films on DVD.Department: School of European Languages, Culture & SocietyThe Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture & Society80% rated 4* (‘world-leading’) or 3* (‘internationally excellent’)Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.We welcome applications from students with a good BA in French (or related subject) for either mode of study. While it is expected that applicants will have a high level of proficiency in French, in some cases we will consider applicants without advanced level French-language qualifications who have gained equivalent skills and competence by other means.The programme encourages innovative approaches to issues in French and Francophone studies, as well as to sharpen the creative critical responses of students. All MA programmes should add up to 180 credits. They can be taken as Taught or Research-Intensive Pathways, details are given below.Modules 2017/18You will take the core course (30 credits), the dissertation (60 credits) and 90 credits-worth of other modules, at least 60 credits of which must be chosen from the language-specific pathway.You will take the core course (30 credits), the dissertation (90 credits) and 60 credits-worth of modules from the language-specific pathway.Compulsory ModulesorFrench Module Options Elective/optional modules offered as part of the MA Language Culture and History programme may be withdrawn in the event of low uptake.Other Module OptionsWith the agreement of the Programme Director, students may combine their interests in French and Francophone Studies with other areas or subjects taught across the various MA programmes. Students may choose from:Students are advised to apply as early as possible due to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding (particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application deadlines.The programme will appeal to students wishing to extend their knowledge in this field and/or preparing for future PhD work. Although aimed at students with a first degree in French, students without French reading skills will be considered. Most of the set texts are available in English translation, and can be used for assessments.For more information see our Applications page.Apply nowWhen we assess your application we would like to learn:Together with essential academic requirements, the personal statement is your opportunity to illustrate whether your reasons for applying to this programme match what the programme will deliver.Degree last modified on 6 January 2017 at 11:58 by UCL Publications & Marketing Services. Please contact us for content updates.The programme provides an excellent foundation for further doctoral study in the field. Graduates of the department have entered a wide range of professions including finance, commerce, journalism, education, the media, public relations, translation and interpreting, and the police.Careers data is taken from the ‘Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education’ survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2012–2014 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.Degree last modified on 6 January 2017 at 11:58 by UCL Publications & Marketing Services. Please contact us for content updates.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.Tuition fees (2018/19)UK/EU:    £10,140 (FT) £5,120 (PT)Overseas:    £21,160 (FT) £10,740 (PT) Degree last modified on 6 January 2017 at 11:58 by UCL Publications & Marketing Services. Please contact us for content updates.Download BrochureRegister interest in your chosen subjects. Receive notice of graduate open days, events and more.Register your interest
                                      URL:
                                      http://www.ucl.ac.uk/selcs/study/postgraduate-taught/language-culture-history-ma/language-culture-history-french-francophone-studies/tel%3A+44%20%280%2920%207679%203096
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				September 2018Optional qualifications: This degree is also available as a PG Diploma and a PG Certificate with fees set accordingly.Location: London, BloomsburyA minimum of an upper second-class Bachelor's degree in a relevant discipline from a UK university or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedFurther information can be found on our English language requirements page.Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website.UCL German is recognised in the UK and overseas as a premier department for the study of German culture, history and language. In the RAE 2008, UCL German was tied for first place in percentage of research judged to be 'world leading' and received the second highest rating overall.UCL's central location offers students easy access to excellent resources, including the British Library, the Institute for Germanic Studies, the German Historical Institute and the Institute of Historical Research.The cultural offerings of the Goethe-Institut, the Austrian Institute, and a wealth of exhibitions, films and theatrical performances are all nearby.Student / staff ratios › 52 staff including 1 postdocs › 30 taught students › 52 research studentsDepartment: School of European Languages, Culture & SocietyStudent / staff ratios › 52 staff including 1 postdocs › 30 taught students › 52 research studentsThe Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture & Society80% rated 4* (‘world-leading’) or 3* (‘internationally excellent’)Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.This MA aims to offer students an opportunity to explore a range of aspects of German history. It seeks to build on UCL's existing strengths and interests in this area and to foster students' specialised knowledge of the field, with a view to further research or as a qualification in its own right.All MA programmes should add up to 180 credits. They
 can be taken as Taught or Research-Intensive Pathways, details are 
given below.You will take the core course (30 credits), the dissertation (60 
credits) and 90 credits-worth of other modules, at least 60 credits of 
which must be chosen from the language-specific pathway.You will take the core course (30 credits), the dissertation (90 
credits) and 60 credits-worth of other modules from the language-specific pathway.Compulsory Modules orMain Module OptionsModules can be chosen from any of the European Studies MA programmes and German Department.Other Modules With the agreement of the Programme Director, students may combine their interests in German History with other areas or subjects taught across the various MA programmes. Students may choose from:  Students are advised to apply as early as possible due to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding (particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application deadlines.The programme is particularly suitable for students with a first degree in German, history, European studies or other relevant humanities or social science subjects, who wish to develop specialised knowledge of the field, with a view to further research or as a qualification in its own right.Each candidate is required to obtain recommendations from two referees. Candidates seeking AHRC funding should note that applications to the department should be made not less than a month before the AHRC deadline of 1 May.For more information see our Applications page.Apply nowWhen we assess your application we would like to learn:Together with essential academic requirements, the personal statement is your opportunity to illustrate whether your reasons for applying to this programme match what the programme will deliver.The degree offers a graduate qualification in its own right, as well as serving as a pathway towards doctoral research in the field of German and European history. Many students progress from one of our MA programmes to an MPhil or PhD research degree. First destinations of recent graduates include:With their specialist knowledge and language skills, German Master's graduates can be found in business, finance, the media, international agencies, teaching and academia.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.Tuition fees (2018/19)UK/EU:    £10,140 (FT) £5,120 (PT)Overseas:    £21,160 (FT) £10,740 (PT) Degree last modified on 6 January 2017 at 11:58 by UCL Publications & Marketing Services. Please contact us for content updates.Download BrochureRegister interest in your chosen subjects. Receive notice of graduate open days, events and more.Register your interest
            This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL web site, but the page you requested was not found. It's possible that the page is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the page may have been changed or removed. 
        © UCL 1999–2012
                                      URL:
                                      http://www.ucl.ac.uk/selcs/study/postgraduate-taught/language-culture-history-ma/language-culture-history-german-history/tel%3A+44%20%280%2920%207679%203096
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				September 2018Optional qualifications: This degree is also available as a PG Diploma and a PG Certificate with fees set accordingly.Location: London, BloomsburyA minimum of an upper second-class Bachelor's degree in a relevant discipline from a UK university or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedFurther information can be found on our English language requirements page.Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website.UCL German is recognised in the UK and overseas as a premier department for the study of German culture, history and language. In the RAE 2008, UCL German was tied for first place in percentage of research judged to be 'world leading' and received the second highest rating overall.UCL's central location offers students easy access to excellent resources, including the British Library, the Institute for Germanic Studies, the German Historical Institute and the Institute of Historical Research. The cultural offerings of the Goethe Institut, the Austrian Institute, and a wealth of exhibitions, films and theatrical performances are all nearby.Department: School of European Languages, Culture & SocietyThe Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture & Society80% rated 4* (‘world-leading’) or 3* (‘internationally excellent’)Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.This interdisciplinary MA aims to offer students from a variety of intellectual backgrounds the opportunity to explore a wide range of aspects of German culture, thought and history.It seeks to build on the German Department's existing strengths and interests and to foster interdisciplinary research in the area of German Studies. It also provides students with an excellent foundation in most elements of German Studies at an advanced level.Applications are welcome from students with a broad interest in matters German, who have a first or good second-class honours degree (or the equivalent from non-UK institutions) in German, European Studies, history, politics and sociology, and related fields, and a knowledge of German at least equivalent to A-level standard. The degree programme may be taken over one year full-time or two years part-time.All MA programmes should add up to 180 credits. They can be taken as Taught or Research-Intensive Pathways, details are given below.You will take the core course (30 credits), the dissertation (60 credits) and 90 credits-worth of other modules, at least 60 credits of which must be chosen from the language-specific pathway.You will take the core course (30 credits), the dissertation (90 credits) and 60 credits-worth of other modules from the language-specific pathway.Compulsory Modules orGerman Module Options These MA modules are designed as an extension to an existing undergraduate course and students taking it will taught along with the undergraduates following that course. MA students following these modules will be provided with five extra 'dedicated' seminars covering material not featured in the undergraduate modules. The examination of these modules, and the assessment for them, are different from the examination and assessment of the undergraduate modules.Elective modules offered as part of the MA Language Culture and History programme may be withdrawn in the event of low uptake.Modules 2017/18Other Optional Modules With the agreement of the Programme Director, students may combine their interests in German Studies with other areas or subjects taught across the various MA programmes. Students may choose from:Students are advised to apply as early as possible due to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding (particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application deadlines.This programme is particularly suitable for students with a first degree in German, European studies, history, politics or sociology who wish to strengthen their knowledge of German culture and history; either as a foundation for subsequent doctoral research or as a graduate qualification in its own right.Each candidate is required to obtain recommendations from two referees. Candidates seeking AHRC funding should note that applications to the department should be made not less than a month before the AHRC deadline of 1 May.For more information see our Applications page.Apply nowWhen we assess your application we would like to learn:Together with essential academic requirements, the personal statement is your opportunity to illustrate whether your reasons for applying to this programme match what the programme will deliver.The MA provides an excellent foundation year for subsequent doctoral research in all areas of the department's research specialisms. Many students progress from one of our MA programmes to an MPhil or PhD research degree.First destinations of recent graduates include:With their specialist knowledge and language skills, German Master's graduates can be found in business, finance, the media, international agencies, teaching and academia.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.Tuition fees (2018/19)UK/EU:    £10,140 (FT) £5,120 (PT)Overseas:    £21,160 (FT) £10,740 (PT) The Modern European Language Scholarships (MELS) were launched in 2014 and aim to attract the most outstanding language students to UCL. Five awards are made each year. Applicants must be:Awards consist of £5,000 per year for the duration of the scholar’s programme (to a maximum of four years). Renewal of the scholarship is subject to an average grade of 2:1 being achieved each year. The scholar will be given the option of whether to receive the award as maintenance or tuition fee funding (or a combination of the two).Once you have confirmed UCL as your ‘firm acceptance’ choice, through UCAS, on an eligible programme offered by the School of European Languages, Culture & Society or a language based programme offered by the School of Slavonic & Eastern European Studies, you will automatically be considered for a Modern European Language Scholarship. There are no additional documents required for the scholarships and there is no separate scholarship application form. Selection is primarily on the basis of academic merit – financial circumstances are not taken into account. Candidates will be required to demonstrate their commitment to UCL’s aims of global citizenship, cultural diversity, and a multi-disciplinary approach to their studies.Selection will be made by a joint panel of academics from SELCS and SSEES.The selection panel meets in early September and successful candidates can expect to be notified by mid-September. Awards will only be made to students who have registered to study at UCL. *NOTE: All scholarship and student funding schemes are subject to availability of funds, and details given here are subject to change at any time. Potential applicants are urged to check information regularly to ensure they are aware of current procedures, deadlines etc.Degree last modified on 6 January 2017 at 11:58 by UCL Publications & Marketing Services. Please contact us for content updates.Download BrochureRegister interest in your chosen subjects. Receive notice of graduate open days, events and more.Register your interest
            This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL web site, but the page you requested was not found. It's possible that the page is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the page may have been changed or removed. 
        © UCL 1999–2012
                                      URL:
                                      http://www.ucl.ac.uk/selcs/study/postgraduate-taught/language-culture-history-ma/language-culture-history-german-studies/tel%3A+44%20%280%2920%207679%203096
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				September 2018Optional qualifications: This degree is also available as a PG Diploma and a PG Certificate with fees set accordingly.Location: London, BloomsburyA minimum of an upper second-class Bachelor's degree in a relevant discipline from a UK university or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard. A knowledge of Spanish at least equivalent to UK A level standard is required. Applications from students who do not have formal qualifications in Spanish but who are competent in the language, will be considered.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedFurther information can be found on our English language requirements page.Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website.UCL Spanish & Latin American Studies features staff who are nationally and internationally renowned experts in the field, who publish in their specialist areas and are active researchers. The department regularly hosts a number of events including conferences, research seminars, symposia and a documentary film course in Cuba.Our location in London provides access to numerous cultural and social events relating to the Spanish-speaking world, its literature, films, history and politics. We encourage active participation in the events of the Instituto Cervantes and the Institute for the Study of the Americas, both of which provide access to excellent resources to enhance your studies.Department: School of European Languages, Culture & SocietyThe Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture & Society80% rated 4* (‘world-leading’) or 3* (‘internationally excellent’)Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website. This programme option offers a wide-ranging and flexible module for graduates, both of Spanish and Latin American studies and related subjects, wishing to develop their interest in the cultures of the Hispanic world at an advanced level. The programme will appeal to those who wish to enhance their knowledge of the Hispanic world for professional purposes – in the fields of education, culture, media and tourism, for example - as well as to students wishing to pursue their studies to doctoral level.  We welcome applications from students with a good BA in Hispanic Studies (or related subject) for either mode of study. While it is expected that applicants will have a high level of proficiency in Spanish, in some cases we will consider applicants without advanced level Spanish-language qualifications who have gained equivalent skills and competence by other means.  All MA programmes should add up to 180 credits. They can be taken as Taught or Research-Intensive Pathways, details are given below. You will take the core course ELCSGG01 (30 credits), the dissertation ELCSG099 (60 credits) and 90 credits-worth of optional modules, at least 60 credits of which must be chosen from the language-specific pathway. You will take the core course ELCSGG01 (30 credits), the dissertation ELCSG098 (90 credits) and 60 credits-worth of optional modules from the language-specific pathway.Modules 2017/18  Compulsory Modules or Module Options  Elective/optional modules offered as part of the MA Language Culture and History programme may be withdrawn in the event of low uptake. Other Module OptionsWith the agreement of the Programme Director, students may combine their interests in Hispanic Studies with other areas or subjects taught across the various MA programmes. Students may choose from: Students are advised to apply as early as possible due to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding (particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application deadlines.The programme will be of interest both to those who wish to enhance their knowledge of the Hispanic world for professional purposes - in the fields of education, culture, media and tourism, for example - as well as students who are considering pursuing their studies to doctoral level.For more information see our Applications page.Apply nowWhen we assess your application we would like to learn:Together with essential academic requirements, the personal statement is your opportunity to illustrate whether your reasons for applying to this programme match what the programme will deliver.This programme may lead to further research, or to employment in which a broad familiarity with Spanish and Latin American culture is an asset.First destinations of recent graduates of the programme include: The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.Tuition fees (2018/19)UK/EU:    £10,140 (FT) £5,120 (PT)Overseas:    £21,160 (FT) £10,740 (PT)   Degree last modified on 6 January 2017 at 11:58 by UCL Publications & Marketing Services. Please contact us for content updates.Download BrochureRegister interest in your chosen subjects. Receive notice of graduate open days, events and more.Register your interest
                                      URL:
                                      http://www.ucl.ac.uk/selcs/study/postgraduate-taught/language-culture-history-ma/language-culture-history-hispanic-studies/tel%3A+44%20%280%2920%207679%203096
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				September 2018Optional qualifications: This degree is also available as a PG Diploma and a PG Certificate with fees set accordingly.Location: London, BloomsburyA minimum of an upper second-class Bachelor's degree in a relevant discipline from a UK university or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedFurther information can be found on our English language requirements page.Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website.UCL Italian is the original home of Italian studies in Britain, and has a distinguished record in the field of graduate studies and research. Students benefit from UCL's excellent Italian resources, including the Rotton and Ogden collections, and the Castiglione and Dante collections.UCL's central location enables easy access to London's exceptional resources including the specialist collections of Italian material in the Warburg and Courtauld Institutes. The British Film Institute Library holds major Italian film periodicals and numerous books on Italian cinema, and the nearby British Library houses the largest collection of early printed books in the world.Department: School of European Languages, Culture & SocietyThe Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture & Society80% rated 4* (‘world-leading’) or 3* (‘internationally excellent’)Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.This MA programme is designed both for students who intend to take a research degree (MPhil or PhD) and for those who wish to further their interest in aspects of Italian literature, language and history.  The MA degree can also serve as a 'conversion' degree, enabling students with first degrees in disciplines other than Italian to move onto a research degree in Italian. All MA programmes should add up to 180 credits. They can be taken as Taught or Research-Intensive Pathways, details are given below.You will take the core course (30 credits), the dissertation (60 credits) and 90 credits-worth of other modules, at least 60 credits of which must be chosen from the language-specific pathway.You will take the core course (30 credits), the dissertation (90 credits) and 60 credits-worth of other modules, at least 60 credits of which must be chosen from the language-specific pathway.Compulsory Modules orItalian Module Options Elective/optional modules offeredas part of the MA Language Culture and History programme may be withdrawn in the event of low uptake.Modules 2017-18Other Module Options With the agreement of the Programme Director, students may combine their interests in Italian Studies with other areas or subjects taught across the various MA programmes. Students may choose from:Students are advised to apply as early as possible due to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding (particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application deadlines.The programme is designed for students wishing to further their interest in Italian literature, language and history, and for those intending to proceed on to doctoral research. It can also serve as a conversion degree, enabling students with first degrees in other disciplines to move onto a research degree in this field.Applicants intending to apply for scholarships will, however, need to complete the application process before applying for a scholarship. Scholarship deadlines usually fall in early spring.For more information see our Applications page.Apply nowWhen we assess your application we would like to learn:Together with essential academic requirements, the personal statement is your opportunity to illustrate whether your reasons for applying to this programme match what the programme will deliver.The programme will be of interest both to those who wish to enhance their knowledge of Italian culture for professional purposes - in the fields, for example, of education, media, commerce and tourism - as well as to students wishing to pursue their studies to a doctoral level.Recent first destinations of MA graduates from the department of Italian at UCL include: The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.Tuition fees (2018/19)UK/EU:    £10,140 (FT) £5,120 (PT)Overseas:    £21,160 (FT) £10,740 (PT) Degree last modified on 6 January 2017 at 11:58 by UCL Publications & Marketing Services. Please contact us for content updates.Download BrochureRegister interest in your chosen subjects. Receive notice of graduate open days, events and more.Register your interest
            This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL web site, but the page you requested was not found. It's possible that the page is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the page may have been changed or removed. 
        © UCL 1999–2012
            This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL web site, but the page you requested was not found. It's possible that the page is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the page may have been changed or removed. 
        © UCL 1999–2012
                                      URL:
                                      http://www.ucl.ac.uk/selcs/study/postgraduate-taught/language-culture-history-ma/language-culture-history-italian-studies/tel%3A+44%20%280%2920%207679%203096
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				September 2018Optional qualifications: This degree is also available as a PG Diploma and a PG Certificate with fees set accordingly.Location: London, BloomsburyA minimum of an upper second-class Bachelor's degree in a relevant discipline from a UK university or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard in a relevant discipline.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedFurther information can be found on our English language requirements page.Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website.UCL Scandinavian Studies is the largest independent Scandinavian department in the UK. Our research and teaching encompasses the languages, literatures, cultures, histories and politics of the entire Nordic region, ranging from the Viking Middle Ages to the present day.Facilities are excellent: UCL boasts possibly the best Scandinavian Studies library outside Scandinavia, and students also have the outstanding collections of the British Library close at hand. Excellent links with universities in mainland Scandinavia, Iceland and Finland provide further benefits.The department is home to the Viking Society for Northern Research, a leading publisher of Old Norse texts and monographs on medieval Scandinavia.Department: School of European Languages, Culture & SocietyThe Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture & Society80% rated 4* (‘world-leading’) or 3* (‘internationally excellent’)Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.The Scandinavian Studies MA option offers an intellectually exciting and flexible range of options focusing on Nordic culture in a global context. No prior knowledge of a Nordic language is required, though students can opt to consolidate their language or translation skills, or to start Danish, Finnish, Icelandic, Norwegian, or Swedish from scratch.The MA can serve as a stepping stone between undergraduate studies and PhD research for students specialising in Nordic Studies. It is also ideal as a one-year professional development opportunity for those working in a field in which knowledge of Scandinavian culture is important: for example, design, publishing, politics, or commerce.Assessed modules are supplemented with workshops and a summer school providing opportunities for networking and career development in publishing, translation, filmmaking, and the heritage and creative sectors.All MA programmes should add up to 180 credits. They can be taken as Taught or Research-Intensive Pathways, details are given below.Modules 2017/18You will take the core course (30 credits), the dissertation (60 credits) and 90 credits-worth of other modules, at least 60 credits of which must be chosen from the language-specific pathway.You will take the core course (30 credits), the dissertation (90 credits) and 60 credits-worth of other modules, at least 60 credits of which must be chosen from the language-specific pathway.Compulsory Module OptionsorScandinavian Module Options These MA modules are designed as an extension to an existing undergraduate course and students taking it will taught along with the undergraduates following that course. MA students following these modules will be provided with five extra 'dedicated' seminars covering material not featured in the undergraduate modules. The examination of these modules, and the assessment for them, are different from the examination and assessment of the undergraduate modules.Elective modules offered as part of the MA Language Culture and History programme may be withdrawn in the event of low uptake.Other Module Options With the agreement of the Programme Director, students may combine their interests in Scandinavian Studies with other areas or subjects taught across the various MA programmes. Students may choose from:Students are advised to apply as early as possible due to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding (particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application deadlines.This MA can serve as a stepping stone between undergraduate studies and PhD research for students specialising in Nordic Studies. It is also ideal as a one-year professional development opportunity for those working in a field in which knowledge of Scandinavian culture is important: for example, design, publishing, politics or commerce.If you are planning to apply for funding from the Arts and Humanities Research Council, you need to submit your application for the degree programme no later than 1 February for the year of entry. Applicants intending to apply for funding from UCL Doctoral School also need to submit their application for the degree programme in good time.For more information see our Applications page.Apply nowWhen we assess your application we would like to learn:Together with essential academic requirements, the personal statement is your opportunity to illustrate whether your reasons for applying to this programme match what the programme will deliver.An MA in Scandinavian Studies offers prospects for employment in the private as well as in the public sector, whether in Scandinavia or in the English-speaking world. Former graduate students in the department are to be found in a range of challenging careers, which include work in IT and management, museums and university teaching.In the UK and abroad, the Nordic countries are increasingly recognised for the success of their political and social model, and for their film, literature, food and design. Our MA graduates bring their deep understanding of Scandinavian culture to careers in which knowledge of the region is key: publishing, the arts, commerce and information management. Expertise in Nordic languages is rare in the UK, and employer demand is accordingly high. Our MA allows students to hone their Nordic language skills or to try a new language. Many of our graduates launch careers with translation companies and as freelancers.Degree last modified on 6 January 2017 at 11:58 by UCL Publications & Marketing Services. Please contact us for content updates.Download BrochureRegister interest in your chosen subjects. Receive notice of graduate open days, events and more.Register your interestYour browser sent a request that this server could not understand.
Your browser sent a request that this server could not understand.

                                     
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				ELCSGG01 - Language, Culture and HistoryELCSG099 - Dissertation taught pathway (60 credits)ELCSG098 - Dissertation research pathway (90 credits)DUTCG007 - Contemporary History, Society and Culture of the Low CountriesDUTCG903 - Project in DutchDUTCG401 - Dutch Language 3DUTCG504 - Advanced Translation from Dutch to EnglishDUTCG202 - Making Modern Dutch LiteratureFRENGT01 - Advanced Translation FRENGT03 - Translation into French (Advanced)FRENGF03 - The French New Wave (Cahier Cinema) FRENG105 - Dominating Texts: Literary Power Relations in 20th Century French LiteratureFRENG051 - Discourses of EqualityFRENG115 - Legendary Histories (Medieval French Literature)FRENG030 - Culture of AIDS in France: History, Policy and RepresentationFRENG036 - Writing the Self in Post-war France: Aspects of Life-Writing GERMG008 - Wolfram's Parzival GERMG012 - Austrian Literature IGERMG016 - Recording Revolt: 1967 in Germany and AfterGERMG023 - Modern German Art: A Cultural HistoryGERMG028 - Reading Modern NovelsGERMG030 - Language, Power, Ideology GERMG032 - Translation from and into GermanGERMG033 - Discussion and EssayGERMG055 - German Literature and PsychologyGERMG144 - Black GermanyGERMG145 - SurveillanceGERMG146 - EmpathySPANG011A - The Latin American Cinematic TraditionSPANG013A/SPANG028 - Sex and the Body in Early Modern Europe SPANG019 - Advanced Translation from and into Spanish SPANG031 - The City in Latin American CultureSPANGF02 - New Argentine CinemasSPANG408 - The Battle for Memory in Contemporary Spanish Novel: Part 1, The Transition to DemocracySPANG115 - The Literary World of Jorge Luis Borges Part 2 SPANG117 - The Works of Cervantes Part ISPANG415 - Reading and Writing Spanish Microfiction PORTG001 - Advanced Translation from and into PortuguesePORTG420 - Portugal and its Empire in the 20th Century: Trajectories and MemoriesPORTG421 - Short Fiction and the Making of Modern BrazilITALG019 - Advanced Translation from and into Italian FILMG012 - Genre in Italian CinemaITALG026 - Marriage & Divorce Italian Style (1861-1975)ITALG027 - Identity and Perfromance in Renaissance Italy ITALG909 - Italian Contemporary NovelITALG102 - Nation, Culture and Society in Italy (1860-1915)SCANG001 - Advanced Translation (Scandinavian into English)SCANG013 - Introduction to Old NorseSCANG014 - Crime and Small Communities in Nordic Literature SCANGF05 - Nordic Cinema: Contextualising Dreyer, Bergman and Dogme 95SCANGM15 - Advanced Old NorseSCANG310 - Politics and Society in the Nordic Region  ELCSG004 - Metamorphosis: The Limits of the Human ELCSG005 - Organised Crime: Gangster in Life and ArtELCSG012 - Sequential Art as a Form of Engagement ELCSG013 - Language and IdeologyELCSG018 - Writing ShameELCSG023 - Men on the Moon: Cosmic Voyages in the Early Modern PeriodELCSG030 - Black EuropeRegister your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 creditsTutor: Dr Cristina MassaccesiTeaching structure: Teaching will take the form of practical translation and of written commentary on the problems of translation encountered. Assessment: One take-home paper (100%).Module Description:This module will focus on the specific skills of translating texts from 
and into Italian. During the module, the students will have the chance 
to work on various kinds of material, such as literary, cinematographic 
(i.e. subtitles and dubbing) and journalistic texts. The module will 
target the development of skills both in critical reading and in 
interpretation, and it will promote an advanced understanding of the 
translation process. Whilst the emphasis will be on the practical 
aspects of translating and adapting a text, students will also be 
acquiring a basic understanding of theories of translation as well as 
the technical vocabulary appropriate to the area.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:
The study material will be provided to the students via Moodle.
    Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Code: SPANG013AValue: 30 credits versionAssessment: 6,000 word essay (100%)Code: SPANG028Value: 15 credits versionAssessment: 4,000 word essay (100%)Tutor: Dr Alexander SamsonTerm: Term 1Teaching structureModule Description:This module will introduce topics in the history of 
sexuality and analyse the emergence of subjectivity in the early modern 
period through a range of literary, historical and dramatic texts, as 
well as painting. Within a theoretical framework drawing on Lacqueur, 
Bahktin, Greenblatt, Foucault and Barker we will examine areas from 
prostitution, gender, witchcraft, exorcism, and madness to issues 
concerned with the representation of the self and body in love, sickness
 and death.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:In the first instance you should look at a selection of the
 material for the first two sessions on 'Theoretical Concepts in the 
History of Sexuality', perhaps reading extracts from Bahktin, Foucault, 
Laqueur or Maclean, then read Rojas' La Celestina in an edition by Severin either in Spanish or Mabbe's translation. Please note: This
module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may
be made prior to the start of the academic year.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Code: SPANG019Value: 30 creditsCourse Convenor: Dr Mazal OakninTutors: Dr Mazal Oaknin, Dr Guadalupe GerardiTeaching structure: Workshops and seminarsAssessment: Students are assessed by 
coursework (50%) and an unseen 3-hour desk exam (50%). The coursework 
consists of a translation and commentary of a literary, cultural or 
historical text (5,000 words). Module Description:
The MA module in Advanced Translation from and into Spanish
 consists of practical translation exercises covering a wide range 
of texts and registers, including technical Spanish. It aims to develop 
linguistic and interpretative skills to a highly advanced level as well 
as to enhance the understanding of the translation process itself.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This scholarship is offered to a postgraduate masters students studying in one or more of of the following Departments: Italian, French, Dutch and History. the award is worth £7000 for one year and each Department can nominate one candidate on the basis of the admissions application.The scholarship is awarded on the basis of academic excellence, achievement and potential.The deadline for submission of applications is 30 April 2017. Applications submitted after this date will not be considered.For more information, please contact the Dr Julia Wagner in the SELCS/CMII post-graduate office.UCL Dutch aims to reward academic excellence among new students of its postgraduate programme by offering a scholarship for new students starting the MA in Dutch Studies in September 2014. The scholarship covers up to £600 towards study expenses like books, research travel and other research related expenses.Candidates must have been formally admitted to the MA Dutch Studies pathway of the Language, Culture & History MA before they can be considered for a scholarship.To be considered for a scholarship, you must have received a letter from the UCL Registry offering you a place on the programme, and you must have informed the UCL Registry, in writing, of your acceptance of the offer by 1 April 2016.Scholarships are awarded on the basis of academic excellence, achievement and potential. Financial circumstances of the candidates are not taken into account.This bursary has been made possible by generous donations of Alumni of UCL Dutch.Applications are invited for the Siva-Finestone MA Scholarship in French in UCL for the session 2017-18. The Scholarship covers full UK/EU tuition fees for a student admitted to the MA in Language, Culture and History (French and Francophone Studies) programme in the School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS).For further information, please contact the School Research Director, Professor Mairead Hanrahan.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Sorry, this Silva Document is not viewable.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 Read what our students have to say about their experiences of studying at SELCS and their time spent living and studying abroad as part of their Programmes. "I learned so much about how language and culture intertwine and this knowledge is now inextricably part of the way I view the world. The highlight was definitely my year abroad.""I chose UCL after falling in love with London. There is no other university in the city, let alone the UK, which captured its vibrant, multi-cultural and dynamic atmosphere as well as UCL."Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 "The range of languages I was able to pick from inspired
me to study at UCL. At that time I hadn’t properly considered the teaching
staff, the location, the library facilities, the levels of support, and so they were happy surprises that inspired me in retrospect! "BA Language and Culture is a really interesting and
varied course that gives you the chance to study three languages rather than
the usual two of Modern Languages. In the first year you usually study two
languages at once: two post A-level (or equivalent) or one with the option of
picking up an ab-initio language of choice. In the second year you can drop one
of those two and pick up a new language and, at the end of that year, the
language(s) you’ve spent two years studying will be the country/countries you
spend your year abroad in. The language courses themselves will only take up
half the modules, the rest normally come from SELCS and are culture based.
Whilst you study languages, the programme is much more about culture and using
language as a route into studying culture. "I learned so much about how language
and culture intertwine and this knowledge is now so inextricably part of the
way I view the world. The highlights
of the programme were definitely my year abroad and my dissertation! Even
though I studied Ukrainian entirely from scratch, I got to live in Ukraine by
myself for a whole year which, although scary at times, was enlightening and
something I never would have done otherwise. "Academically, my language skills
improved to the point where I was able to read all of the sources I wanted to
in order to write the dissertation that I wanted. The BALC programme is so
broad that I basically got to research anything that I wanted (within reason)
and that, along with all the academic support, was truly amazing. This
environment gave me plenty of space to develop useful skills both personally
and academically and to link my time at university with my next degree and,
ultimately, my career. When I graduate I’m going to pursue a career in
midwifery."Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				"I learned so much about how language and culture intertwine and this knowledge is now inextricably part of the way I view the world. The highlight was definitely my year abroad."Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				"I chose to study at UCL after
falling in love with London. I thought that there was no other university in
the city, let alone the rest of the UK, which captured its vibrant,
multi-cultural and dynamic atmosphere as well as UCL does. UCL is always buzzing
with life, always full of things to do, and that was the main reason I wanted
to study here. "My Programme is a
multi-disciplinary degree which gives an overview of European politics,
international relations, history, philosophy and economics in the first year,
any of which you can then go on to specialise in, in subsequent years. You can
also choose to take various languages in combination with ESPS - I study
Italian and Spanish. "My favourite part of my Programme
has been taking up ab initio Italian. I had not studied a language in this way
since I was a child and the conscious study of the patterns in grammar and the
structures in language taught me a lot, not only about the other foreign
languages I speak, but also about English. "I hope that the humanities
element of my course will help me to develop my analytical capabilities, to
construct arguments and to evaluate information critically. When it comes to
languages, I think the most useful skill I have learnt is perseverance, and
this is something which will aid me throughout my life, not just in my career. "Learning a language can be extremely unrewarding – there are millions of people
around the globe, many younger than you, some of who have only a very basic
level of education, but who can do exactly what you do, much better than you,
without even having to think about it. Learning languages is not about the end
product, for you can never claim to know a language completely; it’s about how
you get there, and I think that this is where the beauty of the subject lies. "Studying ESPS is no small
feat to undertake; it involves studying a lot of different subjects, all
simultaneously, which can sometimes seem quite daunting. At the same time
however, it is also a Programme of which you can never get bored and which can
be tailored very tightly to fit your interests, whether they be linguistic,
scientific or humanitarian. 

"For me, my degree at UCL has been
about much more than what I have been
taught; it has been about how I have
been inspired. Learning languages at London’s global university is not just
memorising vocabulary and filling out comprehension exercises; it is about
submerging yourself in a foreign culture, taking an interest in its literature,
reading about its history, thinking about what you say and how you say it and
constantly being excited by what you study."UCL is Unparalleled, dynamic, captivating,
thriving, and finally I’d like to use the untranslatable Spanish word ‘duende’,
which is used to denote something which has soul and inspires feelings of awe,
like artwork which deeply moves the viewer." Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				"I chose UCL after falling in love with London. There is no other university in the city, let alone the UK, which captured its vibrant, multi-cultural and dynamic atmosphere as well as UCL."Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Students can choose from a vast range of degrees and specialisms with the School of European Languages, Culture and Society at UCL, many of which are not available at other institutions. 
SELCS has 6
departments with 11 languages to choose from, as well as options to study combination degrees with
SSEES (School of Slavonic and Eastern European Studies), SOAS (School of
Oriental and African Studies) and other departments at UCL. Find out more about our degree programmes below or by language/department.We offer single language degrees including BA French,
BA Spanish and Latin American Studies, BA German, BA Italian, BA Dutch, BA
Scandinavian Studies, BA Icelandic. We also offer a range of specialist degrees such BA Viking and Old Norse Studies.The BA Modern Languages enables you to combine the study of two languages and
their respective cultures. You can choose from two languages within SELCS, or one in SELCS
and one from other UCL departments or our partner institutions. The BA Modern Language Plus offers you the ability to combine the study of your
chosen language with a range of other subjects across UCL. Options include English, Film, Management, Philosophy amongst others. We also offer degrees in German or Scandinavian Studies and History, which are offered as separate programmes.This is a
degree programme that draws on the departmental expertise across SELCS, and
allows you to combine the study of up to three languages with your own choice
of cultural options in related courses. The BA Comparative Literature affirms UCL’s role as a global leader in
the diverse and thriving field of literary and cultural studies, building on the strength of
well-established departmental programmes, and on a unique range of
language-specific degrees.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Find out more about our Undergraduate Programmes, including details on applications and our year abroad.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This is a single-subject degree.This degree combines two modern languages.This degree combines a modern language and another, non-language subject.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 This four-year programme focuses on the language, culture and history of the Netherlands and Flanders. Students start learning Dutch from scratch and graduate as fluent and interculturally competent speakers of this global language.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language.Choose from a
range of first-year ELCS modules.  
Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate second-year modules related to your chosen language.Choose from a
range of intermediate ELCS modules.Year ThreeYou spend your
Year Abroad in a country where your target language is spoken. Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics advanced
modules related to your chosen language or including ELCS modules.  International and Alternative UK Qualifications For
entry requirements with international and other UK qualifications accepted by
UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective Student website.The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications and test providers can be found on our English language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International Education.These entrance requirements refer to the September 2018 intake, and may be subject to revision for 2019. This page will be updated in September 2018 with subject-specific entrance requirements for students planning to commence their degrees in September 2019.A substantial number of our graduates use their language skills in a variety of contexts, such as public relations (often for multinational companies, many of which have Dutch origins), insurance, banking, political and cultural institutions, or teaching and translating. Some graduates go on to Master's or PhD programmes.There is significant and growing demand for Dutch-speaking graduates, as evidenced by the regular requests the department receives from employers. In the English-speaking context, a university graduate with a good command of Dutch is rare, giving the graduate a major and distinguishing asset.Belgium and the Netherlands belong to the world's most advanced manufacturing and trading areas and are among Britain's largest trading partners. They house the headquarters of numerous multinational companies, the political heart of the European Union and NATO. Dutch has 23 million speakers worldwide and Afrikaans, closely related to Dutch, has 17 million.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:*Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.You are able to take this programme without any previous knowledge of Dutch. However, the degree does require an interest in languages and a proven ability in language learning (see our entry requirements). We will take into account your academic performance and educational background, but also place great importance on your personal statement, your motivation to study Dutch, and your references.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation make you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, we will invite you to a post-offer open day. There, you can experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of studentsThe fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				You can study French in SELCS as a single honours degree or in combination with another language or subject at UCL.This is a single-subject degree.This degree combines French and an African or Asian Language.This degree combines two modern languages.This degree combines a modern language and another, non-language subject.Film from the Undergraduate Open Day French taster sessionThe fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The French components of this four-year programme are taught and taken at UCL, and the Asian or African language components at SOAS University of London (the School of Oriental and African Studies), our near neighbour. There is a strong emphasis on spoken and written language work and the opportunity to undertake interdisciplinary study.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.There are two
possible pathways for this degree, depending upon the African or
Asian language you are taking. Your African or Asian Language will be
taken at SOAS. Full details of the SOAS side of the degree can be found on the SOAS website. Pathway 1
(Near or Middle Eastern Language)Year OneCore compulsory
French language modules totalling 1 cu French Oral is not compulsory
although it is recommended that students take this on a voluntary,
non-assessed basis.Core compulsory
language and cultural modules in your second language taken at SOAS
totalling 3.0cu.Year TwoCore compulsory
French language modules.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate second-year modules related to your chosen language.Choose from a
range of intermediate ELCS modules.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is split between two countries where your target languages are
spoken. Final YearCore compulsory
French language modules.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics advanced
modules from either the French Department or a combination of French
cultural modules and ELCS modules.Pathway 2 (Non Near or Middle Eastern Language)Year OneCore compulsory
French language and literature modules.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen languages or ELCS modules. 
Combination of
language and cultural modules taken in your second language at SOAS.Year TwoCore compulsory
French language modules.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules from either the French Department or a
combination of French cultural modules and ELCS modules.Combination of
language and cultural modules taken in your second language at SOAS.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is split between two countries where your target languages are
spoken. Year FourCore compulsory
advanced French language modules.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics advanced
modules from either the French Department or a combination of French
cultural modules and ELCS modules. International
and Alternative UK Qualifications For entry
requirements with international and other UK qualifications accepted by UCL,
please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website.
 
 The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications and test providers can be found on our English language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International Education.These entrance requirements refer to the September 2018 intake, and may be subject to revision for 2019. This page will be updated in September 2018 with subject-specific entrance requirements for students planning to commence their degrees in September 2019.In addition to linguistic and cultural understanding, this programme aims to develop skills in critical reasoning, independent thinking and application of theoretical concepts. You will learn how to conduct research and to communicate effectively both orally and in writing.Graduates of the department have entered a wide range of professions including finance, commerce, journalism, education, the media, public relations, and translation and interpreting.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:*Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.We
 aim to ascertain the depth and extent of your intellectual interest in 
French culture. Evidence of this may include reading in French beyond 
the examination syllabus (in particular of literary works) and 
experience watching French-language films. We may also employ other 
selection methods. If this is the case we will inform you about them in 
advance.Application for 
admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges 
Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be 
provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left 
school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain 
information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If
 your application demonstrates that you are suitable and you receive an 
offer, then we will invite you to a post-offer open day where you can 
experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				  This four-year programme aims to develop students' interest in, and knowledge of, the French and francophone worlds past and present. This includes language, film studies, literature from the medieval and early modern to the contemporary, libertinism, theory, modernism and postcolonialism.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language.Choose from a
range of first-year ELCS modules.  
Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate second-year modules related to your chosen language.Choose from a
range of intermediate ELCS modules.Year ThreeYou spend your
Year Abroad in a country where your target language is spoken. Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics advanced
modules related to your chosen language or including ELCS modules.  In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree programmes. For
entry requirements with international and other UK qualifications accepted by
UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website.The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications and test providers can be found on our English language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International Education.These entrance requirements refer to the September 2018 intake, and may be subject to revision for 2019. This page will be updated in September 2018 with subject-specific entrance requirements for students planning to commence their degrees in September 2019.In addition to linguistic and cultural understanding, this programme aims to develop skills in critical reasoning, independent thinking and application of theoretical concepts. You will learn how to conduct research and to communicate effectively both orally and in writing.Graduates of the department have entered a wide range of professions including finance, commerce, journalism, education, the media, public relations, and translation and interpreting.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:*Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.We aim to ascertain the depth and extent of your intellectual interest in French culture. Evidence of this may include reading in French beyond the examination syllabus (in particular of literary works) and experience watching French-language films. We may also employ other selection methods. If this is the case we will inform you about them in advance.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that you are suitable and you receive an offer, then we will invite you to a post-offer open day where you can experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and achievements as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 


                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				You can study German as a single honours degree or in combination with another language or subject at UCL.This is a single-subject degree.This degree combines the study of German and History.This degree combines two modern languages.This degree combines a modern language and another, non-language subject.Film from the Undergraduate Open Day Geman Taster talk.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2017/18 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2018 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This four-year programme combines study of the language and culture of the German-speaking countries with a wide range of history modules offered by UCL's School of Slavonic & East European Studies (SSEES).The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject. For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective Student website.The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications and test providers can be found on our English language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International Education.These entrance requirements refer to the September 2018 intake, and may be subject to revision for 2019. This page will be updated in September 2018 with subject-specific entrance requirements for students planning to commence their degrees in September 2019.Thanks to a combination of intellectual training, articulacy and vocational skills, our graduates find employment in many areas of business and commerce, as well as in the public sector (especially, but not exclusively, in education and culture).While a significant number of our graduates choose to remain in the UK, others spend at least part of their working lives based elsewhere, often in German-speaking countries. Recent graduates of German-related programmes have been very successful in gaining employment with companies such as Deutsche Bank, Google, The Wall Street Journal and with organisations such as the British Council.A high percentage of our graduates proceed to further study, either acquiring additional qualifications in law, journalism or business administration, or embarking on Master's or doctoral degrees (in German studies, European history, and in related areas such as translating, interpreting or international relations).First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:*Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application we will be looking for evidence of your aptitude for language learning. We will hope to discover how you became interested in history and in German language, literature, culture or society, what you are doing to further your interests, and why you wish to study these subjects at degree level.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation make you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day. There, you will be able to experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedule pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

 nd Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This is a single-subject degree.This degree has two pathways (Italian Studies or Italian and History of Arts) and it includes two years of study in Ca' Foscari University of Venice and two at UCL.This degree combines two modern languages.This degree combines a modern language and another, non-language subject.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This innovative Double Degree is a unique opportunity to obtain two degrees (UCL BA in Italian Studies or Italian and History of Art plus the equivalent Italian Laurea in Lettere) with two years of study in Venice and two in London. The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.Students take a total of 120 ECTS from each institution (240 in total) of which 180 count towards the awarding of the degree. The remaining 60 can be transferred in Italy at MA level.One Latin or Classical culture subject:Two Italian Literature subjects:Or 2 x Intermediate level History of Art coursesAs you will be studying in Italy for your first two years of this programme, you will need a minimum of A-level standard Italian language. We welcome applications from those with Italian language but without a formal qualification in the language. You may be invited for interview to test your language skills prior to offer.In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective Student website.The Undergraduate Preparatory 
Certificates (UPCs) are intensive one-year foundation courses for 
international students of high academic potential who are aiming to gain
 access to undergraduate degree programmes at UCL and other top UK 
universities.Typical UPC students will be high
 achievers in a 12-year school system which does not meet the standard 
required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been 
conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate 
evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. Information about 
the evidence required, acceptable qualifications and test providers can 
be found on our English language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International Education.These entrance requirements refer to the September 2018 intake, and may be subject to revision for 2019. This page will be updated in September 2018 with subject-specific entrance requirements for students planning to commence their degrees in September 2019.By the final year, we aim to 
equip you with spoken and written language skills similar to those of an
 educated Italian.  The language and transferable skills developed 
throughout the degree can be applied in a wide variety of professions 
both in the UK and abroad.Our graduates find employment
 in numerous areas, including teaching, media, journalism and other 
arts-related fields as well as in the commercial and industrial sectors.
  It is also open to students of the department with a good first degree
 to continue their studies in Italian at graduate level by way of taught
 MA programmes and by research leading to the degree of MPhil or PhD.First career destinations of recent graduates (2012-2014) of this programme include:*Data 
taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey 
undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in 
the 2012-2014 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you 
get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers, 
UCL Advances and other entrepreneur societies here: Careers and skills.As you will be studying in Italy for your first two years of this programme, you will need an appropriate level of Italian language. We welcome applications from those with Italian language but without a formal qualification in the language. You may be invited for interview to test your language skills prior to offer.
When considering your application, we look for evidence of an interest 
in Italian literature, culture or language structure, and enthusiasm for
 learning a modern language.Application for admission should 
be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service).
 Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice 
on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are 
based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from 
UCAS. Application deadline:
                                        15 January 2018
                                    If your application demonstrates 
that your academic ability and motivation make you well-suited to our 
degree you may be invited to an interview for this programme.Our admissions process aims to 
assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural 
awareness and intellectual potential. For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of studentsThe fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   
                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This distinctive and highly flexible programme provides enormous scope for you to customise your degree according to your interest in linguistics, film, literature and history. To this is added the study of two languages, with the possibility of changing language after the first year.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your main language and in your minor language as well as
the Language, Culture and Representation core module.Choose from a
range of first-year cultural, literature, history, film or linguistic
modules from your main language department.Choose from a
range of first-year ELCS modules.  
Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages. You may choose to continue your
main language or switch your minor and major languages subject to
availability and approval.Choose from a
range of intermediate cultural, literature, history, film or
linguistic modules from your main language department.Choose a
combination from a range of intermediate modules in culture,
literature, history, film and linguistics from your language
departments or ELCS modules and the specialist Language and Culture
module. 
Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your main language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your main language.Choose a
combination from a range of cultural, literature, history, film and
linguistics advanced modules from your language department, advanced
language modules or advanced ELCS modules as well as the optional
Language and Culture dissertation.
For entry requirements with international and other UK qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications and test providers can be found on our English language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International Education.These entrance requirements refer to the September 2018 intake, and may be subject to revision for 2019. This page will be updated in September 2018 with subject-specific entrance requirements for students planning to commence their degrees in September 2019.On graduation from this programme you can expect to have excellent oral and written language skills and breadth and depth of cultural knowledge. This degree cultivates numerous transferable skills, including the ability to organise your time and work independently, think critically, and analyse and present information.Graduates from the Language and Culture BA and related programmes have entered a wide range of professions including: journalism, the civil service, interpreting and translating, publishing, advertising, teaching, the media and the arts. A demand exists for graduates proficient in several languages, especially in the less commonly taught European languages.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:*Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In assessing your application we are looking for evidence of your interest in and aptitude for language learning, as well as your interest in literature, film, art and other cultural subjects. Please state your chosen main language, and, if decided, your second language in the 'further details' section of the UCAS form.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation make you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day where you can experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest
	    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This flexible joint honours programme allows students to study two languages (Dutch, French, German, Hebrew, Italian, Russian, Danish, Norwegian, Swedish, Icelandic, Spanish, Bulgarian, Czech, Finnish, Hungarian, Polish, Romanian, Serbian/Croatian, Slovak, Ukrainian, Yiddish), choosing from departments within SELCS, UCL Hebrew & Jewish and the UCL School of Slavonic & East European Studies (SSEES).The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, 
combining a modern language together with another discipline, such as Film Studies,
 History of Art, Philosophy or Management Studies. You will also 
spend a year abroad in a country where the target language is spoken. The full list of combinations available is below, each language can be taken from scratch (with the exception of French and Spanish) or with prior knowledge (see entry requirements for more details).When applying for any of these courses you will apply with UCAS Code RY00 and we will then contact you to find out which combination you are interested in. Entry requirements will depend upon the combination.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

   
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2017/18 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2018 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

  
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   	    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

      School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by CombinationGCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

 
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by CombinationGCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

  
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

  	    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.  There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

 
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 


				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjects.
View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.
			    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 
The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjects.
View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2017/18 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2018 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjects.View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 
 School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjects.
View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website.The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2017/18 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2018 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

 \
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, 
combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or 
one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies,
 History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also 
spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by CombinationGCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic 
year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 
2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   
                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjects.
View A level Requirements by CombinationGCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic 
year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 
2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjects.
View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic 
year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 
2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

    
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjects
View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic 
year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 
2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

  
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjects
View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website.The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic 
year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 
2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

  
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website.The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

  new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjects
View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjects
View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 


                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by CombinationGCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

  
                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjectsView A level Requirements by CombinationGCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 


				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjects
View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

 School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjects
View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

  School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjects
View A level Requirements by CombinationGCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website.The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 
     
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjects
View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 
 School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjects
View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 
    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjects
View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   		    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjects
View A level Requirements by Combination
GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 
		    
				Sorry, this Silva Document is not viewable.Sorry, this Silva Document is not viewable.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjects
View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: Advanced A
variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
EducationThere are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.
		    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjects
View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: Advanced A
variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
EducationThere are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.
                         
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjects
View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: Advanced A
variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
EducationThere are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.
                       
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjectsView A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: Advanced A
variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
EducationThere are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.
                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjects
View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: Advanced A
variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
EducationThere are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.
                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This flexible joint honours programme allows students to study two languages (Dutch, French, German, Hebrew, Italian, Russian, Danish, Norwegian, Swedish, Icelandic, Spanish, Bulgarian, Czech, Finnish, Hungarian, Polish, Romanian, Serbian/Croatian, Slovak, Ukrainian, Yiddish), choosing from departments within SELCS, UCL Hebrew & Jewish and the UCL School of Slavonic & East European Studies (SSEES).The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				These entrance requirements refer to the September 2018 intake, and may be subject to revision for 2019. This page will be updated in September 2018 with subject-specific entrance requirements for students planning to commence their degrees in September 2019.*EEL - Eastern European Language. Choose one of: Bulgarian, Czech, Finnish, Hungarian, Polish, Romanian, Serbian/Croatian, Slovak or Ukrainian^Scandinavian Languages. Choose one of: Danish, Icelandic, Norwegian or Swedish.Please note that in general, the Scandinavian Languages are only available 'ab initio' (Beginners' Level). Portuguese is usually only available at beginner's level.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This flexible programme allows students to study two languages (Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, Finnish, French, German, Hebrew, Hungarian, Icelandic, Italian, Norwegian, Spanish, Swedish, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Russian, Serbian/Croatian, Slovak, Ukrainian, Yiddish), choosing from departments within SELCS, UCL Hebrew & Jewish and the UCL School of Slavonic & East European Studies (SSEES).The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of first-year ELCS modules.  
Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate second-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of intermediate ELCS modules.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is split between two countries where your target languages are
spoken. Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of culture, literature, history, film and linguistics advanced
modules either all related to your chosen languages or including an
ELCS module.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by CombinationGCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates. We seek to embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Popular career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching, while others continue with graduate training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the languages you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the languages (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country or countries in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation make you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day. There, you will experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Languages BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of languages they wish to be considered for. Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level, therefore an A level or equivalent is required for these languages. For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 
			    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This flexible programme allows students to study two languages (Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, Finnish, French, German, Hebrew, Hungarian, Icelandic, Italian, Norwegian, Spanish, Swedish, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Russian, Serbian/Croatian, Slovak, Ukrainian, Yiddish), choosing from departments within SELCS, UCL Hebrew & Jewish and the UCL School of Slavonic & East European Studies (SSEES).The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of first-year ELCS modules.  
Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate second-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of intermediate ELCS modules.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is split between two countries where your target languages are
spoken. Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of culture, literature, history, film and linguistics advanced
modules either all related to your chosen languages or including an
ELCS module. Grades AAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages  View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEs English
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs 
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes. For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities. Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL. For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc. If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page. The English language level for this programme is: Advanced A variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates. We seek to embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Popular career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching, while others continue with graduate training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the languages you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the languages (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country or countries in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation make you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day. There, you will experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Languages BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of languages they wish to be considered for. Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level, therefore an A level or equivalent is required for these languages. For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

 			This flexible programme allows students to study two languages (Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, Finnish, French, German, Hebrew, Hungarian, Icelandic, Italian, Norwegian, Spanish, Swedish, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Russian, Serbian/Croatian, Slovak, Ukrainian, Yiddish), choosing from departments within SELCS, UCL Hebrew & Jewish and the UCL School of Slavonic & East European Studies (SSEES).The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of first-year ELCS modules.  
Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate second-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of intermediate ELCS modules.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is split between two countries where your target languages are
spoken. Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of culture, literature, history, film and linguistics advanced
modules either all related to your chosen languages or including an
ELCS module.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languagesView A level Requirements by CombinationGCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates. We seek to embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Popular career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching, while others continue with graduate training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the languages you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the languages (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country or countries in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation make you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day. There, you will experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Languages BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of languages they wish to be considered for. Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level, therefore an A level or equivalent is required for these languages. For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

                      
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This flexible programme allows students to study two languages (Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, Finnish, French, German, Hebrew, Hungarian, Icelandic, Italian, Norwegian, Spanish, Swedish, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Russian, Serbian/Croatian, Slovak, Ukrainian, Yiddish), choosing from departments within SELCS, UCL Hebrew & Jewish and the UCL School of Slavonic & East European Studies (SSEES).The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of first-year ELCS modules.  
Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate second-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of intermediate ELCS modules.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is split between two countries where your target languages are
spoken. Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of culture, literature, history, film and linguistics advanced
modules either all related to your chosen languages or including an
ELCS module.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates. We seek to embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Popular career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching, while others continue with graduate training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the languages you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the languages (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country or countries in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation make you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day. There, you will experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Languages BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of languages they wish to be considered for. Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level, therefore an A level or equivalent is required for these languages. For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest
			    
				This flexible programme allows students to study two languages (Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, Finnish, French, German, Hebrew, Hungarian, Icelandic, Italian, Norwegian, Spanish, Swedish, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Russian, Serbian/Croatian, Slovak, Ukrainian, Yiddish), choosing from departments within SELCS, UCL Hebrew & Jewish and the UCL School of Slavonic & East European Studies (SSEES).The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of first-year ELCS modules.  
Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate second-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of intermediate ELCS modules.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is split between two countries where your target languages are
spoken. Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of culture, literature, history, film and linguistics advanced
modules either all related to your chosen languages or including an
ELCS module.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. (link to ML page on Prospectus site please)The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates. We seek to embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Popular career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching, while others continue with graduate training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the languages you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the languages (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country or countries in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation make you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day. There, you will experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Languages BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of languages they wish to be considered for. Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level, therefore an A level or equivalent is required for these languages. For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

  			    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This flexible programme allows students to study two languages (Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, Finnish, French, German, Hebrew, Hungarian, Icelandic, Italian, Norwegian, Spanish, Swedish, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Russian, Serbian/Croatian, Slovak, Ukrainian, Yiddish), choosing from departments within SELCS, UCL Hebrew & Jewish and the UCL School of Slavonic & East European Studies (SSEES).The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of first-year ELCS modules.  
Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate second-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of intermediate ELCS modules.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is split between two countries where your target languages are
spoken. Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of culture, literature, history, film and linguistics advanced
modules either all related to your chosen languages or including an
ELCS module.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website.The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates. We seek to embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Popular career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching, while others continue with graduate training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the languages you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the languages (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country or countries in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation make you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day. There, you will experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Languages BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of languages they wish to be considered for. Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level, therefore an A level or equivalent is required for these languages. For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

                     
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This flexible programme allows students to study two languages (Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, Finnish, French, German, Hebrew, Hungarian, Icelandic, Italian, Norwegian, Spanish, Swedish, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Russian, Serbian/Croatian, Slovak, Ukrainian, Yiddish), choosing from departments within SELCS, UCL Hebrew & Jewish and the UCL School of Slavonic & East European Studies (SSEES).The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of first-year ELCS modules.  
Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate second-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of intermediate ELCS modules.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is split between two countries where your target languages are
spoken. Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of culture, literature, history, film and linguistics advanced
modules either all related to your chosen languages or including an
ELCS module.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates. We seek to embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Popular career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching, while others continue with graduate training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the languages you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the languages (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country or countries in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation make you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day. There, you will experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Languages BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of languages they wish to be considered for. Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level, therefore an A level or equivalent is required for these languages. For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

  				    
				This flexible programme allows students to study two languages (Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, Finnish, French, German, Hebrew, Hungarian, Icelandic, Italian, Norwegian, Spanish, Swedish, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Russian, Serbian/Croatian, Slovak, Ukrainian, Yiddish), choosing from departments within SELCS, UCL Hebrew & Jewish and the UCL School of Slavonic & East European Studies (SSEES).The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of first-year ELCS modules.  
Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate second-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of intermediate ELCS modules.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is split between two countries where your target languages are
spoken. Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of culture, literature, history, film and linguistics advanced
modules either all related to your chosen languages or including an
ELCS module.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates. We seek to embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Popular career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching, while others continue with graduate training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the languages you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the languages (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country or countries in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation make you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day. There, you will experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Languages BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of languages they wish to be considered for. Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level, therefore an A level or equivalent is required for these languages. For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

		    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This flexible programme allows students to study two languages (Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, Finnish, French, German, Hebrew, Hungarian, Icelandic, Italian, Norwegian, Spanish, Swedish, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Russian, Serbian/Croatian, Slovak, Ukrainian, Yiddish), choosing from departments within SELCS, UCL Hebrew & Jewish and the UCL School of Slavonic & East European Studies (SSEES).The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of first-year ELCS modules.  
Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate second-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of intermediate ELCS modules.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is split between two countries where your target languages are
spoken. Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of culture, literature, history, film and linguistics advanced
modules either all related to your chosen languages or including an
ELCS module.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: Advanced A
variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
EducationThere are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates. We seek to embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Popular career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching, while others continue with graduate training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the languages you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the languages (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country or countries in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation make you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day. There, you will experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Languages BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of languages they wish to be considered for. Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level, therefore an A level or equivalent is required for these languages. For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This flexible programme allows students to study two languages (Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, Finnish, French, German, Hebrew, Hungarian, Icelandic, Italian, Norwegian, Spanish, Swedish, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Russian, Serbian/Croatian, Slovak, Ukrainian, Yiddish), choosing from departments within SELCS, UCL Hebrew & Jewish and the UCL School of Slavonic & East European Studies (SSEES).The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of first-year ELCS modules.  
Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate second-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of intermediate ELCS modules.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is split between two countries where your target languages are
spoken. Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of culture, literature, history, film and linguistics advanced
modules either all related to your chosen languages or including an
ELCS module.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: Advanced A
variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
EducationThere are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates. We seek to embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Popular career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching, while others continue with graduate training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the languages you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the languages (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country or countries in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation make you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day. There, you will experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Languages BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of languages they wish to be considered for. Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level, therefore an A level or equivalent is required for these languages. For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest
                   
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This flexible programme allows students to study two languages (Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, Finnish, French, German, Hebrew, Hungarian, Icelandic, Italian, Norwegian, Spanish, Swedish, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Russian, Serbian/Croatian, Slovak, Ukrainian, Yiddish), choosing from departments within SELCS, UCL Hebrew & Jewish and the UCL School of Slavonic & East European Studies (SSEES).The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of first-year ELCS modules.  
Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate second-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of intermediate ELCS modules.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is split between two countries where your target languages are
spoken. Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of culture, literature, history, film and linguistics advanced
modules either all related to your chosen languages or including an
ELCS module.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates. We seek to embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Popular career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching, while others continue with graduate training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the languages you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the languages (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country or countries in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation make you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day. There, you will experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Languages BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of languages they wish to be considered for. Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level, therefore an A level or equivalent is required for these languages. For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 
                   
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This flexible programme allows students to study two languages (Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, Finnish, French, German, Hebrew, Hungarian, Icelandic, Italian, Norwegian, Spanish, Swedish, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Russian, Serbian/Croatian, Slovak, Ukrainian, Yiddish), choosing from departments within SELCS, UCL Hebrew & Jewish and the UCL School of Slavonic & East European Studies (SSEES).The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of first-year ELCS modules.  
Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate second-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of intermediate ELCS modules.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is split between two countries where your target languages are
spoken. Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of culture, literature, history, film and linguistics advanced
modules either all related to your chosen languages or including an
ELCS module.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by CombinationGCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website.The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates. We seek to embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Popular career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching, while others continue with graduate training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the languages you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the languages (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country or countries in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation make you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day. There, you will experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Languages BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of languages they wish to be considered for. Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level, therefore an A level or equivalent is required for these languages. For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

  			    
				This flexible programme allows students to study two languages (Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, Finnish, French, German, Hebrew, Hungarian, Icelandic, Italian, Norwegian, Spanish, Swedish, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Russian, Serbian/Croatian, Slovak, Ukrainian, Yiddish), choosing from departments within SELCS, UCL Hebrew & Jewish and the UCL School of Slavonic & East European Studies (SSEES).The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of first-year ELCS modules.  
Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate second-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of intermediate ELCS modules.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is split between two countries where your target languages are
spoken. Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of culture, literature, history, film and linguistics advanced
modules either all related to your chosen languages or including an
ELCS module.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: Advanced A
variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates. We seek to embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Popular career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching, while others continue with graduate training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the languages you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the languages (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country or countries in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation make you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day. There, you will experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Languages BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of languages they wish to be considered for. Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level, therefore an A level or equivalent is required for these languages. For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

 		    
				This flexible programme allows students to study two languages (Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, Finnish, French, German, Hebrew, Hungarian, Icelandic, Italian, Norwegian, Spanish, Swedish, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Russian, Serbian/Croatian, Slovak, Ukrainian, Yiddish), choosing from departments within SELCS, UCL Hebrew & Jewish and the UCL School of Slavonic & East European Studies (SSEES).The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of first-year ELCS modules.  
Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate second-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of intermediate ELCS modules.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is split between two countries where your target languages are
spoken. Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of culture, literature, history, film and linguistics advanced
modules either all related to your chosen languages or including an
ELCS module.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: Advanced A
variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
EducationThere are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates. We seek to embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Popular career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching, while others continue with graduate training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the languages you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the languages (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country or countries in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation make you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day. There, you will experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Languages BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of languages they wish to be considered for. Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level, therefore an A level or equivalent is required for these languages. For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest
	    
				The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				DUTC1001 - Dutch Language 1DUTC1101 - Born out of
Rebellion: The Netherlands from The Dutch Revolt to The Eve of World War IDUTC1201 - Modern Dutch Literary
TextsFREN1001 - Use of FrenchFREN1002 - French OralFREN1003 - Projects in the French LanguageFREN1101 - The Making of Modern
FranceFREN1102 - Reading French
Texts FREN1106 - French FilmGERM1001 - Modern German LanguageGERM1002 - German for
Beginners GERM1101 - Introduction to
German HistoryGERM1102 - Introduction to
German Language & Literature up to 1740GERM1104 - Introduction to
German Film since 1945 GERM1105 - An Introduction to Modern German LiteratureGERM1106 - An Introduction to German Linguistics ITAL1010 - First Year Italian Language ITAL1102 – Cinema and Literature from War to ReconstructionITAL1105 - Background to Dante and InfernoITAL1112 - Imagining the Nation: Italian UnificationITAL1116 - Italian Culture under Fascism ITAL1118 - Introduction to Renaissance ItalySCAN1001 - Basic DanishSCAN1002 - Basic SwedishSCAN1003 - Basic NorwegianSCAN1004 - Basic Modern
IcelandicSCAN1102 - Introduction to
Linguistics and the Scandinavian LanguagesSCAN1201 - Nordic
StorytellingSCAN1303 - Histories and
Cultures of the Nordic RegionSCAN1401 - Introduction to
Old NorseSCAN1402 - Vikings and Material CultureSPAN1001 - Spanish Language ISPAN1212 - Experiments in
Modern Spanish DramaSPAN1213 - Introduction to
Spanish FilmSPAN1220A - Introduction to
Modern Latin American Literature & Culture - Cancelled SPAN1222 - Civilisation and Barbarism in Argentine LiteratureSPAN1223 - Cultural Responses
to the Mexican RevolutionSPAN1224 - The Latin American SupernaturalSPAN1225 - The Spanish Ballad
Tradition from the Middle Ages to LorcaSPAN1500 - Introduction to Spanish and Latin American Studies





 



These courses are compulsory for those on the 'with Portuguese' diets, 
and then available to single honours students (subject to availability).PORT1010 - Beginners'
PortuguesePORT1226 - Introduction to
Portuguese LiteraturePORT1227 - The Brazilian NovelLCUL1001 - Language, Culture and RepresentationLITC1001 Cultural Encounters in World LiteratureLITC1002 How To Read TextsLITC1003 Intimate Strangers: Devils, Monsters, BeastsLITC1004 Literature of TravelLITC1006 Questions of RealismLITC1007 Re-Imagining the Self: Reading Chinese Short FictionLITC1009 Music, Film and Media in AfricaLITC1010 Topics in the Modern Novel: From Realism to Magical Realism Additional Course Content Module available in our partner departments.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150Contact hours: 5 hours (3 seminars, 4 supervisions)Student workload: Watching video or film, reading, supplementary tasks to support writing of the
reports  Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2 Tutor: Dr Benjamin Bacle Assessment: 100% coursework - 2 reports of 1,000 words each  Prerequisites: GCE A level FrenchThis module is compulsory for single-subject and French with Film students. It is
available to CS/ML/MLP francophone students who do not take FREN1002. The module aims to foster research skills and independent learning in French,
leading to the production of pieces of discursive French. In the course of the
year, students are required to write two reviews in French, each of 1000 words,
the subjects of which will normally be a recent book, video or film of their
choice. BA French with Film students will produce two film reviews.  The module is taught through a mixture of seminars and individual tutorials. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0
course units / 15 ECTS Level: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 300Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2 Tutor: Christine Sas and language assistantsAssessment: one unseen two-hour examination (35%); one listening comprehension and oral examination (30%); and a portfolio including essays, listening and vocabulary tests and grammar assignments (35%).Module Description:This is an intensive language module for beginners. Five hours per week are devoted to developing practical language skills alongside basic grammatical competence, to enable students to participate in a wide variety of language exchanges and transactions. By the end of the first year students should be able to communicate fluently in basic written and spoken Dutch, expressing ideas and feelings about non-specialist topics. Attention is paid to developing a critical language awareness. Two hours per week are set aside for self-study, over and above homework tasks and module assessments, in order to consolidate and complement classroom work.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Students should obtain a copy of Routledge Intensive Dutch Course (London/New York: Routledge 2006). Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2 Tutor: Ulrich TiedauAssessment: two 1500 word essays (25% each) and one unseen two-hour examination (50%).Module Description:Situated at the crossroads between the Anglophone, Francophone and German-speaking cultures, “the Low Countries”, present-day Belgium and the Netherlands, offer a fascinating picture of European history en miniature. Many common traits and similar developments have differentiated these countries from the surrounding great powers and have given them a distinct character.The module offers a broad survey of Low Countries History from the late Middle Ages to the eve of World War I. It aims to: develop a good understanding of the major topics of Dutch and Belgian history from the late Middle Ages to the early 20th century; introduce basic concepts and approaches in the study of history; help you develop analytical, writing and presentation skills.Although mainly directed at students of Dutch, the module is also suited for all learners with an interest in this European neighbour region of the UK, whose early modern history was closely intertwined with that of Britain. No previous historical knowledge or competence in Dutch is required.Preparatory reading and set texts: The following textbook, a standard history, provides backup to the programme:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2Tutor: Hans DemeyerAssessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (50%); and one 2000 word coursework essay (50%).Module Description:This term 2 module introduces students to Dutch and Flemish literature through a series of short texts in Dutch. The texts – poetry and prose – are accessible to students who started the language in term 1. The module aims to develop techniques of literary analysis, practice reading skills, expand vocabulary and give students a grounding in contemporary and twentieth-century literature written in Dutch. Preparatory reading and set texts: Many of the stories and poems to be studied in class will be taken from the anthologiesAdditional useful reading:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Full yearConvenor: Marie FournierTutor: various Assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (100%).Students must pass this exam to be able to progress onto second year.Available to: non-specialist students from outside the department who have an A in French at GCE A level.Module Description:The aim of this first-year core language module is to 
establish a firm grasp of basic grammatical structures and tenses and to
 engender the skills of comprehension, explanation and free production 
of written French in a variety of forms. The module is taught in French. Satisfactory attendance and completion of the coursework are normally prerequisites for examination entry.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Full yearConvenor: Marie FournierTutor: various Assessment: one fifteen minute oral examination (100%). Satisfactory completion of 
the coursework is normally a prerequisite for examination entry. Module Description:In this first-year language module, students are required to respond in 
French to a variety of texts and other stimuli in different linguistic 
situations - dialogue, group presentation, synopsis, judgment etc. 
Topics will include a variety of subjects.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Term 2Convenor: Dr Kevin InstonTutor: various Teaching structure:  weekly lecture and seminarAssessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (100%). Satisfactory completion of the coursework is normally a prerequisite for examination entry. Module Description:The aim of this module is to introduce students to some of the key historical events which have shaped modern France, and to develop their critical and essay-writing skills. It will examine documents relating to the Revolution, the Dreyfus Affair, Vichy and the decolonization of Algeria, and encourage students to question the discursive and rhetorical forms which shaped these historical debates. The module looks at the historical context and explores the social, political and symbolic significance of the events. It also incorporates an element of peer-editing which will ask students to reflect upon and improve their own writing practices.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 0.5 course units / 15 UCL credits / 7.5 ECTSCourse Convenor: Dr Thibaut Maus de Rolley Assessment: one unseen two-hour examination (100%). Satisfactory completion of the coursework is normally a prerequisite for examination entry. Available to: ESPS students for whom French is a minor language choose between this module and FREN1101 - The Making of Modern France. Term: Full YearModule Description: The aim of this core course taught
over two terms (Terms 1 & 2) is to introduce students to different literary
genres of writing in French (prose narrative, theatre, poetry) and to equip
them with the analytical skills they will need in subsequent years to study
texts in greater depth.  We will study (not necessarily in chronological
order) six texts or group of texts: the 12th-century Lais de Marie de France, a series of
twelve short narrative poems in verse; L'Heptaméron, a collection of
short stories written by Marguerite de Navarre in the first half of the 16th
century; Molière’s L’Ecole des femmes
(1662), a comedy in verse on the education of women; Denis Diderot’s Supplément
au Voyage de Bougainville (1796), a dialogue contrasting European society
with that of a utopian Tahiti; a selection of 19th-century sonnets;
and finally, Jean-Paul Sartre’s Huis Clos
(1944), an existentialist play in which three deceased characters find
themselves locked in a room for eternity.  Students will attend a series of lectures
(13 hours over two terms) and seminars (14 hours). Assessment will take the
form of critical commentaries that analyse the text in close detail. Prescribed texts: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 0.5 course unit / 15 UCL credits / 7.5 ECTSTutor: Dr Roland-Francois LackAssessment: one 2000-word assessed essay (50%) and one 90-minute unseen examination (50%).
 Satisfactory completion of the coursework is normally a prerequisite 
for examination entry.Term: Term 2Module Description:Through close and intensive study of two key films, one from 1961 and 
one from 2012, these seminars introduce students to the methodology of 
film study, including sequence analysis, in the context of French art 
cinema between 1959 and 2012. In conjunction with the two principal 
films, ten related films will also be studied, enabling students to 
develop a comparative approach to film study.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:You should obtain, in any edition, one of the following three books:These are expensive volumes to buy new, so you might want to look for second-hand copies.You should also have your own copy of the two principal films to be studied:These films will be studied in conjunction with the two principal films:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSTotal Learning Hours: 300
Terms: Term 1 and Term 2
Tutor: Various
Assessment: Coursework (10%), Oral Examination (20%), Timed Examinations - Paper 1 
(40%): translation, reading comprehension and grammar (3 hours); Paper 2
 (30%): essay (2 hours).This
module is for Year 1 students studying German at post-A
level/-IB and for
Year 2 students who studied GERM1002 in their First Year.Module Description:This is a language module that develops a
range of core linguistic skills, including spoken and written German, reading
comprehension, and translation from German into English. The module consists of 3 components:Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This
module is for Year 1 students studying German at ab initio level.Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTS Level: First level (level 4)
Total Learning Hours: 300
Terms: Term 1, Term 2 and Term 3
Tutor: Dr Dagmar PaulusTeaching structure: This is a 3-term module (10 weeks per
term). Language learning moves from guided to more creative and independent
work. Assessment: portfolio (30%), oral examination (20%),  oral presentation (10%), one unseen three-hour written examination (40%).Module Description:This module is aimed at students with little or no knowledge
of German. The module introduces students to various aspects of the
German-speaking world as a way of enabling them to begin building communicative
abilities in German in all four language modalities: reading, listening,
writing, and speaking. Through diverse collaborative and individual tasks and
exposure to a range of topics, text types, and different socio-cultural
situations, students acquire basic strategies for reading, listening, and
writing, and for participating in every-day conversations. In the process they
will learn to use with some confidence major sentence patterns and grammatical
features of German as well as high-frequency vocabulary of everyday life.
Integration of current technology (e.g., the Internet, e-mail, video)
familiarises students with the German-speaking world while at the same time
enhancing language learning.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: We also
recommend:   Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First level (level 4)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 2
Tutor: Dr Jeff BowersoxTeaching Structure: Term 2. 2-hour weekly
seminar taught in English, consisting of lectures, class discussions, and
student presentations. Moodle to be used as a repository for reading materials
as well as for preparatory assignments.Teaching Structure: One class presentation; one set of practice questions.Assessment: One take-home exam in Term III (100%).Module Description:In this course students
 will explore German history from the Middle Ages to the present day. We
 will cover major events in medieval and early modern times, including 
the German Reformation and the Thirty Years
War, but our main focus will be on the nineteenth and twentieth 
centuries. We will engage with a variety of topics, 
including nationalism and nation-building, revolution and reaction, 
industrialization and urbanization, changing gender roles
and social structures, empire at home and abroad, mass politics and 
culture, Germans’ roles and experiences in two world wars, Nazi racism 
and genocide, and division and unification in the Cold War world.  The 
common threads running throughout will be Germans’
persistent experimentation with defining “Germany” and the consequences 
for those variously included and excluded according to gender, class, 
religion, race, politics, and other categories. Upon successful 
completion of the class, students will be able to discuss fundamental 
trends in German historiography, will be able to make effective use of 
secondary and primary sources to make a historical
argument, and will be able to present their analysis in both written and
 oral form. Students will come away with a foundation for future classes
 as well as a basic understanding of trends that continue to shape 
German society today. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1 and Term 2 Tutor: Dr Sebastian Coxon Teaching structure: The
module is conducted through a mixture of lecture and discussion classes; one
hour per week over two terms.Assessment: one
unseen two-hour written examination (45%), one 2,500 word essay (45%) and
coursework (10%).  Module
Description: This
module gives a taste of premodern literature, taking a range of works including
medieval short stories, the first Arthurian romance in German and an early novel.
All of these texts were designed to entertain and instruct their audiences and
readers. Our aim is to understand how these dual functions worked and what such
earlier forms of literature can tell us about the history of storytelling and
poetic expression. Students
will have plenty of opportunity to learn to read medieval texts in the
original. Please
note this module is not available to students who have undertaken GERM1002.
(Most of the relevant secondary literature is in German.) Preparatory
Reading and Set Texts: · Topic I: Der
Stricker: Erzählungen, Fabeln, Reden, ed. O. Ehrismann, Stuttgart 1992etc (Reclam 8797). · Topic II: Ein
kurzweilig Lesen von Dil Ulenspiegel, ed. W. Lindow, Stuttgart 1970etc (Reclam 1687) · Topic III: Hartmann
von Aue: Erec, ed. V.
Mertens, Stuttgart 2008etc (Reclam 18530) Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 2
Tutor: Dr Memerid Puw DaviesAssessment: 1 two-hour written examination 50%; 1 assessed essay (2,500 words) 50%, for which students will have access to DVD material. Module Description:This module will examine a representative selection of German films made,
mostly before 1989, by prominent post-war directors in the Federal Republic of
Germany, such as Herzog, Wenders, Fassbinder and Tykwer. These films pay
particular attention to German history and society and we will discuss as an
ongoing theme the ways in which they reflect contemporary perceptions of
Germany and  its troubled past. The course
will thus introduce students to post-war German culture more broadly, as well
as to techniques of film analysis. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course units / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1 and Term 2
Tutor: Various
Teaching structure: All teaching for this module will be in small tutorial groups.
Assessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay (50%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (50%). **Module Description:This module introduces students to the systematic and
 rigorous study of German literature. Some of you may have done very 
little literature at school; others may be used to discussing literary 
texts. Our introductory half-module is meant to speak to both the 
beginners and the ‘old hands’. We take a selection of texts written 
between the second half of the eighteenth century and the present.An average of three weeks will be spent on each text. The module will 
focus on developing both analytical skills and essay-writing techniques.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:It is important that students acquire these texts and read them well in advance of the tutorials. Term one Term twoTranslations for ab initio students:** Please note that this Term 2
module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination.  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First level (level 4)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1
Tutor: Dr Geraldine HoranAssessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay (50%); and one unseen two-hour written examination with three essays	(50%). **Module Description:The module will provide an introduction to linguistic concepts
              and topics which help us to understand the structure and use of
              the German language in contemporary times. The fields studied in
              the module include: phonetics and phonology; inflection and derivation;
              syntax; lexical structure, lexical borrowing, and sociolinguistic
              variation. Although the main focus of the module will be on the
              German language, comparisons with contemporary English will also
              be made where relevant. Primary material will be taken from newspapers
              and magazines, television and the internet where necessary. Students
              will be encouraged to find their own examples of linguistic phenomena
              from these sources. An essential part of the module will involve
              background reading of secondary material to consolidate understanding
              of guiding linguistic theories and principles.
Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: * You should purchase a copy of this if possible.  ** Please note that this module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0
course units / 15 ECTS Level: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 300Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2 Tutor: VariousAssessment: one oral examination (25%), coursework (10%) and one 
unseen three-hour written examination (65%) consisting of the following 
three questions:Post-beginners:Beginners: Module Description: This is an intensive mandatory module for all 
students studying Italian in any Modern Languages and Modern Languages 
Plus combination, as well as for those taking single honours Italian. Students with previous knowledge of Italian are 
tested during Registration Week and streamed into groups (advanced and 
intermediate). All other students will attend the beginners' module. Teaching focuses on the development of integrated skills 
(written and oral production and reception) and on the appropriate use 
of language functions. The aim is to bring all students to post-A level 
standards of communicative competence in Italian in its linguistic, 
socio-linguistic and pragmatic aspects by the end of the academic year. Set Texts:You will be placed in a language group appropriate to your level of Italian at the start of term.Essay/ Oral Grammar/Translation (All Students) All students must own a bilingual dictionary. We recommend Oxford Paravia Italian Dictionary English-Italian Italian-English, Milan, Paravia Bruno Mondadori Editori, 2001 (or a later edition). Books can be purchased from the Italian Bookshop (http://www.italianbookshop.co.uk/) with a 10% discount.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2  Tutor: Professor John DickieAssessment: one unseen two-hour written examination 
(100%) plus two formative commentaries (600 words each)Module Description:In July 1943, Allied armies invaded Sicily, leading to the
collapse of Mussolini's Fascist regime. Thereafter, Italy lived through perhaps
the most tumultuous period in its history. As the Allies and Nazis battled it
out, the resistance and recalcitrant Fascists fought a civil war behind the lines.
With the Liberation came new expressive freedoms, but also social conflict and
economic crisis, and the difficult process of constructing the political ground
rules for the post-war Republic. When the Cold War began in 1947, Italy, which
had the largest Communist Party in Western Europe, found itself on the front
line. Meanwhile, as the first signs of economic recovery appeared, Hollywood,
and American culture generally, fuelled new aspirations. This course
studies the cinema and literature that reflected many of the issues of the
decade following Mussolini's fall. It will also serve as an introduction to the
study of narrative in film and literature more generally. The themes covered may
include: realism and 'Neorealism'; ideological conflict and propaganda; the
legacy of the resistance; consumerism and glamour.  Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:  Our reading will
concentrate on a selection of the following books:

Background reading Prescribed
filmsAll films studied during the module are
available to borrow from the Italian Departmental office and have English
subtitles. There will also be showings timetabled during the first term. The
precise films studied may vary, but will certainly include the following:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Oscar SchiavoneTeaching structure: Introductory 
lectures in the first half of the first term on Dante’s life and times will be 
followed by readings from the text itself.Assessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (100%). Module Description:In this module, we engage with one of the most famous works in European literature: Dante's Inferno. We will begin by briefly reviewing the life and times of Dante Alighieri (1265-1321): his career in literature, and his experiences in the social world of medieval Florence, and later as a political refugee after he was exiled from his home town. All of this prepares us for reading the Inferno, the first part of Dante's great narrative poem, the Commedia, telling of a journey through the afterlife from hell to heaven. It is a poem that has fascinated readers for nearly 700 years, with its vivid language immersing us into a compellingly imagined otherworld. The Inferno is at once a ghost story, a quest, a road-trip, a love story, a virtual reality, and a spiritual vision - though as we will discover, each of these terms requires definition in the context of medieval life and thought. In the first weeks, we will explore the general form of Dante's Inferno and get to grips with some of his leading ideas and his writing style. Classes will combine introductory lectures with close reading of selected passages from the Inferno, corresponding to the lecture topic. In the second part of term we will concentrate more closely on reading sections from the poem, improving analytical and interpretive skills via seminar-style discussions and informal presentations. These classes will provide opportunities to focus especially on the 11 canti that have been selected for close study, from the 34 canti that make up the complete Inferno. The set canti are: canti 1, 4, 5, 10, 13, 15, 19, 26, 27, 33 and 34.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:These will be circulated at the first lecture.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2Tutor: Professor Robert LumleyAssessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (100%); one compulsory but not assessed essay; and one compulsory but not assessed commentary.Module Description:The premise of the module is that it is impossible to understand Italy today without knowing how the country was unified in the first half of the 19th century - what is called 'the Risorgimento'. It introduces the protagonists of this epic: Mazzini, Garibaldi, Cavour, Verdi, and Manzoni, and looks at the part played by literature, and music as well as politics in the national cause. We examine how questions that still preoccupy Italians - the divisions between North and South, corrupt politicians, the power of the Church, - all originate in this key historical moment. Contemporary visual materials and documents are used, together with films on the Risorgimento. The content and the methods of study provide an excellent grounding for other modules in history, visual culture, cinema and literature taught in the department and across UCL.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(ITAL1116A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars
take place at the same times as ITAL1116.)Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1  Tutor: Dr Marta NiccolaiAssessment: ITAL1116: two 2,000-word essays (50% each).ITAL1116A: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module Description:This module is an overview of Italian culture during Fascism. It gives
an introduction to the literature, art, and cinema during Mussolini’s
dictatorship (1922-1943) and provides an understanding of the relationship
between Italian intellectuals and the Fascist State, the places, institutions,
and events (Accademia d’Italia, Littoriali della cultura e
dell’arte, etc.) for the production of culture during the regime, and
issues of censorship and cultural propaganda. It also considers Italy’s
cultural relationships with other countries during the Fascist regime, looking
at international exchanges and initiatives, translations of foreign books into
Italian, and the look of foreigners visiting the peninsula.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:The
following texts provide the general historical and cultural context for the
understanding of literary and visual productions analyzed during the module,
and also set the terms for broader debates, themes, and questions.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(ITAL1118A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars
take place at the same times as ITAL1118.)Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Lisa SampsonAssessment: ITAL1118: one 2000 word essay (50%); one unseen two-hour written examination (50%).ITAL1118A: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module Description: The ‘Renaissance’ refers
to the rebirth of classical culture and is associated with a period of innovation
in Italy across the arts and sciences. This introductory module allows students
to broaden their understanding of this key period of Italian civilization by
exploring the politics, society and culture from the late 14th to
the 16th centuries. The module discusses a variety of topics, such
as the political landscape, the rise of the papacy, the role of the family and
friends,  the Medici, humanism and education, and the
changing status of artists. Students will also have the opportunity to study
two of the most significant works of the period both linked to the Medici
dynasty of Florence. Machiavelli’s Prince
(1513) presents a fascinating and still very relevant analysis of the darker
aspects of political life; Vasari’s Lives
of the Artists (1550; 1568) is an
influential history of art, with vivid biographies of artists like Giotto and
Michelangelo and perspectives on their masterpieces. The module will be taught
by a combination of formal lectures and seminars and may involve a study trip
to the V&A museum.    All primary Italian
materials will be available in English translation to accommodate the
requirements of ab initio students,
but may also be read in the original Italian.   Preparatory reading
and set texts   Set texts* · Machiavelli, Niccolò, The Prince (preferred edition by Quentin Skinner and Russell Price
(Cambridge, 1988)) · Vasari, Giorgio, The Lives of the Artists, transl. with intro. and notes by Julia
Conaway Bondanella and Peter Bondanella (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1998)
(or any edition that includes the Prefaces, Giotto, Masaccio, Raphael and
Michelangelo) [*the Italian texts can both be accessed online: http://www.bibliotecaitaliana.it/] Background
reading/viewing · Najemy, John M., ed., Italy in the Age of the Renaissance (Oxford: Oxford University
Press, 2004)  · Hay, Dennis and John Law, Italy in the Age of the Renaissance (London: Longman, 1989) · Burke, Peter, The Italian Renaissance: culture and society in Italy, 2nd edition
(Oxford: Polity Press, 1999) · Cole, Alison, Art of the Italian Renaissance courts: virtue and magnificence
(London: George Weidenfeld and Nicolson, 1995) · F. W. Kent and Patricia Simons, with J. C. Eade,
eds, Patronage, Art, and Society in  Renaissance Italy (Oxford: Clarendon, 1987) · Najemy, John M., A History of Florence,
1200-1575 (Oxford: Blackwell, 2006) · Skinner, Quentin, Machiavelli: A very short introduction, 2nd edn (Oxford: OUP, 2000)
 · Grendler, Paul F., ed., Encyclopedia of the Renaissance, 6 vols (New York: Scribner’s,
1999) [informative longer entries for reference] · Web Gallery of Art: http://www.wga.hu/
(look at works by Giotto, Masaccio, Raphael and Michelangelo) Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0
course units / 15 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 300 Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2 Tutor: Dr Eleanor ChiariAssessment: two essay questions weighted 50% (2,500 words) and 50% (2,500 words)Available to: available
only to BA Language & Culture students, not to affiliates.Module Description: This interdisciplinary module
introduces students to theory and methods that will be useful across languages
and departments in and beyond SELCS. Topics covered will include general
introductions to cultural studies, visual culture, translation studies, gender
studies, postcolonial studies, sociolinguistics and intercultural communication
among others. The course also includes practical training from conducting oral
history interviews, to analysing a wide range of media sources (from films to
advertising), to museum field trips.  The second term will see
students prepare independent research projects in teams, which they
present to classmates and a panel of 'judges'. Students are encouraged to
participate in weekly discussions, on-line fora and learn as much from the
lecturer as from their multi-talented and multilingual classmates. Optional preparatory reading:  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: First level (level 4)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr
Ana Cláudia Suriani da SilvaAssessment: One 2,500-word
coursework essay (50%) and one unseen desk exam (50%)Course description:This course aims to introduce students to both the Brazilian novel and
its cultural, social, literary and historical contexts from the 19th
to the beginning of the 20th century. The module will explore
different traditions of novel writing in Brazil, place the emergence of
Brazilian novel in relation to the contemporary European novel, and introduce
students to a range of important discussions about the novel as a genre, its
cultural function, its audiences, and its relation to the social world.Method of delivery:Lectures
and seminars convened and facilitated by the individual course tutor.
Occasional guest lectures may be included in order to help expose students to
new scholarship especially from Brazil. The module is supported by an
individual course Moodle site. All course information will be made available
via Moodle. Primary texts for lectures and seminars will be made available via
Moodle. There will be film screenings of existing adaptations of the works
under study.Aims of the module:You may start reading the primary texts for this course
before classes begin. Primary texts (in English translation):Adaptations:  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course units / 15 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4)Total Learning Hours: 300Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2Tutor: Dr Joana Rita RamalhoTeaching structure: The class meets 4
hours per week in two 2-hour classes. The teaching is divided into four main
components: Oral, Grammar, Translation into
Portuguese and Translation into English. Other
skills, such as listening and reading comprehension and writing skills, are
included in each of the four components.Assessment: Final Desk Exam with components
of Grammar, Composition in Portuguese, Translation into Portuguese and
Translation into English (50%); Oral
Exam (20%); Coursework (30%). The coursework consists
of two grammar quizzes, two oral presentations, two writing exercises
in Portuguese, two translations into Portuguese, and two translations into
English. The breakdown for coursework marks is 3% for each component.  Module Description:Taken over two
terms, this is an intensive ab initio course designed for students who
have had little or no exposure to Portuguese. It aims to take you from basic to pre-intermediate level, matching
the linguistic ability of level A2 of the Common European Framework of
Reference for Languages (CEFR), with some aspects of B1 also being explored. The general language class provides
a friendly atmosphere where you can practice and gradually build up confidence
in spoken and written Portuguese. Both the
European and Brazilian varieties are explored. The
intensive grammar classes establish the foundations for the reading and translation of more advanced texts. The
translation classes equip you with the
relevant competences to tackle translations of literary and non-fiction texts
from Portuguese into English. They will also help you work towards accurate
translations from English into Portuguese. Over the two terms, you will hear
about some key Lusophone writers, artists, contemporary and historical
personalities, watch carefully selected video materials, and familiarize yourself
with some of the key media outlets of the Lusophone world. By the end of the
module, you will be able to communicate fluently in a wide range of everyday
situations, hold conversations on routine topics, write and translate
simple texts into Portuguese, and read and translate more advanced Portuguese texts
into English. You will be acquainted with key aspects of the Lusophone
culture(s) across the globe, and feel stimulated to establish connections
between the language classes and the
literary and intellectual worlds explored in the PORT content modules. We will encourage you to work
over the summer to ensure that you start Year 2 with confidence.Course materials:  Your tutor will make use of a combination of online
resources, grammars, textbooks and other materials. You are asked to bring the following
books to class. Whilst the library has copies for reference or short loan,
purchasing these materials is strongly recommended for use in class and at home: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(PORT1226A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The module  takes place at the same times as PORT1226A.)Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: First level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Zoltán BiedermannAssessment:PORT1226: one 2,500 word coursework essay (50%) and a two hour unseen desk exam (50%)
PORT1226A: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module Description:This module introduces students to Portuguese literature
with an emphasis on canonical texts and their historical contexts. The first
part is dedicated to the origins and first apogee of Portuguese as a literary
idiom. From Galician-Portuguese poetry, the module proceeds to three sessions
on the various facets of the sixteenth century, and concludes with the
prophetic tradition that informed António Vieira’s writing in the seventeenth
century. Thus the first part of the module collects references to an apparently
perennial tension in Portuguese literature between imperial glory on the one
hand, and loss on the other. This tension, it is argued, is to some extent
constitutive of the Portuguese literary tradition. But it also calls for a
critique, as the second part of the module demonstrates. In weeks 6-10 students
will read modern authors who, whilst reflecting upon the decay of Empire, are
most notable for personal narratives of fragmentation and loss. Materials will
be available in English translation. All secondary readings for the classes
will be in English.Companion:Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: SCAN1001: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSSCAN1001A/SCAN1001B:  15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: First Level (Level 4)
Total Learning Hours: 
SCAN1001: 300  SCAN1001A/SCAN1001B: 150

Term: SCAN1001: Full Year  SCAN1001A: Term 1 SCAN1001B: Term 2

Tutor: Dr Anne GrydehøjAssessment: SCAN1001A: 100% coursework. 
SCAN1001/SCAN1001B: one unseen three-hour written examination
(50%); one oral examination (30%); and course assessment (20%).Teaching Structure: 2x 2-hour seminar per week, consisting of tutor-led
discussions, communicative exercises and student presentations. Moodle to be used as a repository for reading
materials as well as for preparatory assignments and forum discussions.Module
Description:The module
aims to: strengthen the individual student’s awareness of different strategies
and methods for language learning; be goal-oriented in the work with the
language skills: speaking, understanding, writing and reading and with the
basic elements pronunciation, vocabulary and grammar; enable the students to
express themselves about everyday topics in speech and writing, to understand
everyday conversations, and to read texts of a reasonable level of difficulty.Class work
is communicative and task-oriented, encouraging students to be active
participants, to take responsibility for their own learning and to see work
outside class as an integrated part of classroom teaching.Preparatory
Reading and Set Texts:Textbooks:
The tutor's own material will be used (textbook tba), along with various texts,
video and audio materials, and exercises made available on the Moodle site. Grammar: It
is recommended that students have their own copy of R Allan, P Holmes & T
Lundskær-Nielsen, Danish: An
Essential Grammar (Routledge 2011).Dictionaries:
Dansk-engelsk ordbog
& Engelsk-dansk ordbog
(Gyldendal) or similar. Make sure that the dictionary gives you the gender of
nouns.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of 
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the 
academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: SCAN1002: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSSCAN1002A/SCAN1002B:  15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: First Level (Level 4) Total Learning Hours: SCAN1002: 300  SCAN1002A/SCAN1002B: 150 Term: SCAN1002: Full Year  SCAN1002A: Term 1 SCAN1002B: Term 2 Tutor: Jelena CalicAssessment: SCAN1002A:100% coursework.SCAN1002/SCAN1002B:one unseen three-hour written examination (50%); one oral
examination (30%); and one module assessment (20%).Module Description:The module aims to teach students basic vocabulary, grammar and sentence patterns
so as to enable them to read elementary Swedish texts, understand simple
everyday conversations and express themselves with some fluency in both speech
and writing. By
the use of a variety of techniques the students will gradually become
acquainted with spoken and written Swedish and develop the skills necessary to
express themselves in the language.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Textbook
and grammar to be announced in the first week of the Autumn Term. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSLevel: First Level (Level 4)Total Learning Hours: 300Term: Full YearTutor: Dr Elettra CarboneAssessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (50%); one oral examination (30%); and one assessment (20%).Module Description:The aim of the module is to teach the students basic communication skills in
Norwegian: speaking, reading, writing and understanding everyday
Norwegian. In class: Reading Norwegian texts. Conversation in
connection with texts and related everyday topics. Listening and
pronunciation exercises. Occasional role-play and class presentations
by individual students on topics they have prepared at home. Grammar is
explained systematically and the students are given exercises in
connection with grammatical points. At home: Reading, essay writing, translation, grammatical exercises
and occasional preparation of role-play and oral presentations. The form of Norwegian taught will be bokmål. As soon as practical, all class interaction will take place in Norwegian.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: Elisabeth Ellingsen and Kirsti Mac Donald, Norsk på 1-2-3, Cappelen Damm, 2010.One of the following grammars:DictionariesAll
 students must own a good English-Norwegian and Norwegian-English 
dictionary, one of the dictionaries must indicate the gender 
of Norwegian nouns. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSLevel: First Level (Level 4)Total Learning Hours: 300Term: Full YearTutor: Dr Helga Hlaðgerður LúthersdóttirAssessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (50%); one oralexamination (20%); and one assessment, in the form of a language portfolio (30%).Module Description:This module aims to give
students insight into the Icelandic language, its structure and history. The module equips students with a basic knowledge of Icelandic, both written and
spoken, so that they will be able to read elementary texts, engage in simple daily
conversation, and pursue further studies in the modern language. Students will gain
knowledge of the fundamentals of Icelandic grammar, vocabulary, sentence
structure and pronunciation. Modern texts will be studied as well, and students
will practice both spoken and written Icelandic to develop their skills in
expressing themselves in Icelandic. In addition, the module will cover in broad
outline the history of the language and contemporary ‘language politics’
(loan-words, neologisms etc.).Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:DictionariesReadings, Grammar and Exercises Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (Level 4)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Full YearConvenor: Jesper HansenAssessment:  one unseen three-hour written examination (70%); and one 2-3,000 word essay (30%).Module Description: It is essential for students following language modules at university level to have a grasp of basic linguistic 
terminology and concepts. This module focuses mainly on language as a set 
of formal, interdependent sub-systems, such as phonetics/phonology 
(sound production and sound systems), grammar in the sense of morphology
 (word-formation and word classes) and syntax (phrases, clauses, 
sentences and word order), as well as on broader aspects of language as a
 special communication system. This will initially be illustrated with 
the help of English and the knowledge thus gained will then at each 
stage be applied to the mainland Scandinavian languages (Danish, 
Norwegian and Swedish).A brief historical 
background, charting the main stages in the development of English and 
the mainland Scandinavian languages from Common Germanic to the present,
 will also be provided.By the end of the module, 
students should thus have a sound knowledge of basic phonetics and 
grammar and be able to apply this chiefly to their chosen mainland 
Scandinavian language. They will also have an overview of the basic 
phonetic and grammatical data in the two other mainland Scandinavian 
languages and of the key stages in the historical development of English
 and the Scandinavian languages.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Some handouts will be provided and other reading materials will be recommended at the start of the module.Please note that this module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (Level 4)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Jakob Stougaard-NielsenAssessment: One essay of 4,000 words (100%)
Teaching structure: Two-hour weekly seminars consisting of lectures,
class discussions and student presentations. Moodle to be used as a repository
for reading materials as well as for preparatory assignments, formative
assessments and forum discussions.  Module Description: This module aims to develop
the skills required to analyse and contextualise literary prose. The texts to
be studied are predominantly Nordic (in English translation), selected from the
long and rich tradition of Nordic folk, fairy and fantastic tales, from
Medieval ballads to Gothic tales and postmodern short stories, animated and
fantasy film. More generally, the module will investigate a variety of
narrative components (e.g. narrator, character, genre, theme), and will explore
why storytelling has been and continues to be a central human activity, how it
has changed over time and how stories reflect changing conceptions of Nordic
societies, cultures and identities. The module will introduce students to a
broad range of theories and methods in literary studies including narratology,
gender studies, print culture and monster studies. Preparatory Reading and Set
Texts: Reading materials and a guide
for locating texts to be studied in the module will be made available on
Moodle. Primary texts to be studied may include a selection of Scandinavian
folk tales, Hans Christian Andersen’s fairy tale The Little Mermaid (1837),
the Norwegian film Trollhunter (2010)
and the Swedish vampire novel, Let the
Right One In (2004). As basic text books, we
suggest you use: · Monika Fludernik, An Introduction to Narratology
(Routledge, 2009) · Andrew Bennett & Nicholas Royle, An
Introduction to Literature, Criticism and Theory (Pearson, 2009). · Marina Warner, Managing
Monsters (Vintage 1994) · Fred Botting, Gothic
(Routledge, 2014) · John Lindow, Trolls:
An Unnatural History (Reaktion Books, 2014) Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSLevel: First Level (Level 4)Total Learning Hours: 300Term: SCAN1303: Full Year (1cu), SCAN1303A: Term 1 (0.5cu), SCAN1303B: Term 2 (0.5cu)Tutor: Annika LindskogAssessment: coursework one (1,500 words, 15%); coursework two (2,500 words, 35%); coursework three (1,500 words, 15%); 2-hour written exam (35%)Assessment: SCAN1303A - coursework one (1,500 words, 30%); coursework two (2,500 words, 70%)Assessment: SCAN1303B - coursework one (1,500 words, 30%); 2-hour written exam (70%)Module Description:The module is designed to underpin a solid introduction to Scandinavian culture and language in the first year of the Department’s single and joint honours degree programmes. It is meant to introduce the study of history and of various forms of cultural production, while demonstrating the interaction between these cognate disciplines. The module also aims to contribute to the students’ intellectual and personal development by explicitly posing questions about power, ideology, authority and identity.Students will gain knowledge and understanding of:The module will provide a thoroughgoing, wide-ranging and stimulating introduction to the history and culture of the Nordic region. Taught in an explicitly interdisciplinary manner by a number of members of faculty from the Department of Scandinavian Studies, the module will invite students to reflect on the methodologies and approaches specific to different, cognate disciplines (such as History, Literary Studies, etc.), and to identify connections between them. A central concern is to emphasise the constructed nature of historical narrative, and to this end the module will be structured around a number of key dates, moving backwards and forwards in time to explore both historical causality and relevant cultural expressions of the sociological formations under investigation.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Journals: Students will also be expected to read appropriate chapters from standard history textbooks before each lecture/seminar, and to familiarise themselves with the primary materials chosen for that week. A Moodle site will allow for posting of digitised and online resources week-by-week, as well as post-seminar discussion.Please note that this module is assessed by both essay and examination (apart from SCAN1303A). In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the final essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSPG Value: 30 creditsLevel: First Level (Level 4)Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Full YearTutor: Dr Erin GoeresTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. UG Assessment: 2 x in-class tests (15% each), 1 x two-hour written exam (70%)SCAN1401A (Affiliates only): Two-hour written exam (100%)PG Assessment: Three-hour written exam (100%)Module Description:Old Norse,
the medieval precursor to the modern Scandinavian languages, was once heard
throughout Europe and beyond. During the
Middle Ages Scandinavian ships travelled west to North America and east to
Istanbul. The scope and variety of the
Old Norse literary corpus matches the remarkable span of these journeys: myths
and legends, love- and battle-poetry, prose narratives about kings,
adventurers, poets and saints are all found in Old Norse. This module will introduce students to a wide
range of Old Norse language and literature, situated within the broader context
of the history and culture of Viking and medieval Scandinavia. Students will develop a good understanding of
the basics of Old Norse grammar and by the end of the module will be able to
translate medieval Icelandic prose and some forms of poetry. They will become familiar with key texts in
the Eddic, skaldic and saga traditions, and will begin to explore ways in which
contemporary scholarship can shed light on the complex but rewarding world of
medieval literature.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Students
are advised to obtain a copy of A New
Introduction to Old Norse – Part 1: Grammar, ed. Michael Barnes (London,
2004).The two set texts will be Ari Þorgilsson’s Íslendingabók and Auðunar
þáttr in A New Introduction to Old
Norse – Part II: Reader, ed. Anthony Faulkes (London, 2008). Both volumes,
as well as the accompanying glossary, are available online at Viking Society Publications.  The
following will offer a good introduction to the subject: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (Level 4)Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Haki AntonssonAssessment: two essays of 2,000 words each
(50% + 50%)This
module introduces students to the material culture of Viking and medieval
Scandinavia. Through a series of workshops at the British Museum, British
Library and other London-based institutions, students will gain first-hand
experience working with artefacts and manuscripts from the period. These
workshops will complement a series of seminars held in the Department in which
students will examine more broadly the archaeology and history of the period,
as well as the theoretical background to the use of objects as sources for
history and culture.  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course units / 15 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4)Total Learning Hours: 300Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2Tutor: variousModule convenors: Dr Adolfo Sánchez Cuadrado & Marga Navarrete Teaching
structure:Assessment:
Final Desk Exam with components of
Grammar, Composition in Spanish, Translation into Spanish and Translation into
English (50%); Oral Exam (20%);
Coursework (30%). The coursework consists of two grammar
quizzes, two oral presentations, two writing exercises in Spanish, two
translations into Spanish, and two translations into English. The breakdown
for coursework marks is 3% for each component.Assessment 2016-17:Module
Description:This
is a post A-level first year Spanish language module, consolidating level B1
and exploring level B2 of the Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages (CEFR). By the end of the second term, students are expected to
master complex structures of written and spoken Spanish. You should be able to
communicate fluently in a variety of contexts and deal with most situations
likely to arise when travelling in a Spanish-speaking country. The Grammar and
Communicative Language Skills class provides a friendly atmosphere where you
can practice and build up confidence in spoken and written Spanish. Different
varieties of Spanish will be explored. The Translation classes equip you with
the relevant competences to tackle translations from both Spanish into English
(literary and non-fiction texts), and English into Spanish (audiovisual
materials, including a video that you will produce yourself). You will be
acquainted with key aspects of the Hispanic culture(s) across the globe, especially
in the Additional Contents and Skills classes.Please
note that there is no ab initio Spanish
language teaching in this Department. Set
Textbooks*: VV. AA. (2014),
Aula internacional 4. B2.1. Nueva edición. Barcelona: Difusión. 160
pages. ISBN: 9788415620853VV. AA. (2010), Todas
las voces B1. Curso de cultura y civilización. Barcelona: Difusión. 144
pages. ISBN: 9788484437222VV. AA. (2012), Developing
Writing Skills in Spanish. London and New York: Routledge. 372 pages.
Hardback ISBN: 9780415590822. Paperback ISBN: 9780415590839. [Digital copy
available from UCL library].VV. AA. (2011), Gramática
básica del estudiante de español. Edición revisada y ampliada. Barcelona:
Difusión. 302 pages. ISBN: 9788484437260.
 [You have the option of getting the English version: Students’ Basic
Grammar of Spanish. Revised and Expanded Edition. Barcelona: Difusión. 312
pages. ISBN: 9788484434375
] *Students are required to get a copy of each book and are expected to bring them to their respective classes according to the
weekly syllabus specified on Moodle.  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4)Total Learning Hours: 150Term/s: Term 2Tutor: Dr Gareth WoodAssessment: One 2,500 word coursework essay (50%) and a two-hour desk exam (50%)Module Description:This module will introduce students to the work
of Spain’s most ambitious dramatists of the early twentieth century: 
Ramón
María del Valle-Inclán, Miguel de Unamuno, and Federico García Lorca. 
These three writers were key figures in the flourishing of Spanish 
cultural life between the end of the nineteenth century and the outbreak
 of the Civil War in 1936, the year in which each of them died. Their 
dramatic works in particular fought against the stodgy, middle-class 
values that they believed were preventing the Spanish stage from 
becoming a focus of renewed artistic energy. Working chronologically, 
this module will examine how these three writers experimented with dramatic 
form,
the possibilities of staging, and the capacity of theatre to challenge 
its
audience to experience art in new ways.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:The set texts will be as follows:A more detailed bibliography of secondary sources will be provided via Moodle and in class.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(SPAN1213A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The module takes place at the same time as SPAN1213.)Value: 0.5 course unitsTerm: Term 1Tutor: Dr Maria Chiara D'ArgenioAssessment:SPAN1213: One 2,500 word coursework essay (50%) and a two-hour desk exam (50%)
SPAN1213A: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module Description:This
module will provide an introduction to film analysis and to key aspects of the
development of Spanish cinema. Topics examined will include: Melodrama, Film
noir, influence of Italian neo-realism, The Spanish Civil War, Censorship,
The political transition to democracy, Colonialism, Postmodernism,
Transnationalism. Films studied will include:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				****This module has been cancelled for 2017/18****Value: 0.5 course unitTutor: Dr Stephen FayAssessment: Two 2,000-word essays (each weighted at 50%) Module Description: This module introduces first-year students to key historical
moments of the 20th century in which Latin American societies and
cultures underwent significant transformations. The course explores these
transformations through the prism of some of the most significant (although not
necessarily the most well known) texts produced during this period. The
course is divided into two sections, each of which covers a different
but closely complementary theme.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Modernismo y Americanismo (weeks 6-10) Primary texts Complementary Texts:JMRDÁfrica en América (weeks 12-16)Primary Texts  Initial Complementary Texts:   Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s:  Term 2

Tutor: Dr Humberto Núñez-FaracoAssessment: One 2,500 word coursework essay (50%) plus one unseen desk exam (50%).Module Description: This course provides an introduction to 19th- and
20th-century Argentinian literature with particular attention to the dichotomy
civilisation versus barbarism. Topics examined include the conflict between the
colonial heritage and the progressive ideals of the liberal generation in the
first half of the 19th century, the participation and/or exclusion of different
ethnic groups in the process of constructing a national identity, the
appropriation of Positivist ideologies, and the emergence of cultural
nationalism in the 20th century. The texts studied will encourage in-class
debate on the role of ideology in nation-building, as well as issues regarding
race, class, and social conflict. Classes will take the form of lectures and
seminars involving discussion and close analysis of the texts studied. N.B. This course
is taught in Spanish (seminar discussions are held in English)Methodology:All classes combine an initial lecture of approx.
45 mins followed by a reading seminar (group discussion). There will be a
5-minute pause in-between. Students are kindly requested to read in
advance the corresponding texts for each week. Following each
lecture/seminar, full class notes will be posted on Moodle. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Course schedule:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: First Level (level 4)  Total Learning Hours: 150  Term/s: Term 2Tutor: Dr Macarena Jiménez NaranjoAssessment: One 2,500 word coursework essay (50%) and a two-hour desk exam (50%)Module Description:This module studies the representation
of the Mexican revolution in literature and muralism. We will cover the
life-course of a phenomenon that, although an extremely violent, costly and
lengthy period was simultaneously, as Octavio Paz has stated ‘a sudden
immersion of Mexico in her own being’. Mexico’s Revolution brought about
violent but also social, political and cultural change. It shook the entire
country from top to bottom and has been an obsession in culture, arts and
literature ever since. During the course we will cover both the revolution’s
armed struggle (a chaotic and violent period spanning the years 1910-1920), and
its institutional phase ranging from about 1920 to 1946. This course examines
artistic manifestations that look both analytically and critically at the Revolution
and its consequences. We will discuss works such as Los de abajo,
which was written in 1915, right in the midst of armed struggle, through to
novels published in the 1980s, such as Como agua para chocolate.
The course also focuses on the important role that visual culture played in
legitimising the Revolution and creating a sense of national identity which
included the poor and marginalised, for example through the work of muralists
like Diego Rivera. By examining the cultural responses to the Mexican
Revolution, this course seeks to analyse how the Revolution is mythologized,
explained, critiqued and justified in literature and culture, how it depicts
disillusionment with its promises, and issues of race, class, gender and
sexuality as they relate to Mexican history.   Texts: Mariano Azuela, Los de
abajo (1915)Mexican Muralism – (from 1920)Ángeles Mastretta, Arráncame la vida (1986)Juan Rulfo, El llano
en llamas – (1953)Laura Esquivel, Como agua para chocolate (1989)Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Term 1 Tutor: Professor Stephen HartAssessment: One 2,500 word coursework essay (50%) plus one unseen desk exam (50%).Module Description: This module analyses the expression of the
supernatural in Latin American culture, with particular reference to the ways
in which the economy of the supernatural is contrasted with natural law, how it
is understood and valued by individuals and specific social groups.

 Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Term 2 

Tutor: Dr Tyler FisherAssessment: One 2,500-word coursework essay (50%) and one unseen desk examination (50%)Module Description:This module provides
a broad introduction to an important Spanish poetic genre, the romance or
Spanish ballad. The module traces the conventions of this verse form across six
centuries, from those composed on the frontier between Moorish and Christian
Spain, to those that evolved in the New World and those that reflect
avant-garde aesthetics in the early twentieth century. This involves critical
commentary on particular texts and broader study of the romancero in
its varying cultural contexts. Students will have the opportunity to analyze
recurring motifs and to identify innovations in this enduring genre, while
honing their critical writing skills. A creative component of this module
encourages students to engage with the ballad tradition by composing their own
imitative romances.The
course tutor convenes and facilitates lectures and seminars. All course
information will be made available via Moodle, as well as many of the primary
texts for lectures and seminars. You may start reading for this module before
classes begin. Key readings are marked with an asterisk in the list of texts.Texts: *Romancero, ed. Paloma Díaz-Mas. The
Spanish Ballad in the Golden Age, ed. Nigel Griffin, Clive Griffin, et al. Romancero
tradicional de América,
ed. Mercedes Díaz Roig. *Antonio
Machado, 'La tierra de Alvargonzález'. José
Peón del Valle, Cuba victrix: Romancero de las guerras de independencia. *Federico
García Lorca, Romancero gitano.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2 Tutor: Various. The convenor is Dr Zoltán
Biedermann Teaching structure: a series of 15 one-hour lectures and 14 one-hour seminars
spread over Terms 1 and 2. Assessment: Coursework 1 (1,500 words): 40%; Coursework 2 (2,000
words) 60%Module Description: This course introduces students
to key aspects of global Hispanic history and culture from the late medieval
period to the 21st century, and acts as a foundation on which
students in the Department will build throughout the rest of their degree. It
exposes students to a wide variety of materials – poetry, prose fiction, essay
and film – and explores different ways of making sense of them through
historical contextualisation, close reading and critical analysis. Students
gain a critical appreciation of the canon of Spanish and Latin American
Studies, whilst also developing the tools to explore less canonical authors and
works. In the seminars, we will focus on discussing the primary materials and
develop key skills in reading and writing. This module is team-taught by
permanent members of academic staff, allowing students to become acquainted
with a wide range of research methods and approaches. It runs over two terms,
enabling students to engage in in-depth readings of the literary and critical
materials, including some longer texts in Spanish, and in a systematic
development of skills that will prove useful throughout their entire BA
programme. A series of films will be screened as part of the module, some of
which are studied in Term 2.  Course
materials: A list of course materials is
available on Moodle, and many of the materials will be uploaded there. Key
items will be available for purchase at the Gower Street/Tavistock Place branch
of Waterstone’s.  Set Readings and Viewings N.B.
Please ensure you come to each lecture and seminar having read or viewed the
prescribed material for that class, detailed below. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				DUTC2001 - Dutch Language 2DUTC2101 - At the Crossroads of Europe: Belgium, The Netherlands and Luxembourg in the 20th and 21st CenturiesDUTC2203 -Twentieth Century
Dutch Literature I: Themes DUTC2300 – Multiculturalism and IdentityFREN2001 - Use of FrenchFREN2002 - French OralFREN2101 - Introduction to Literary TheoryFREN2102 - The Medieval PeriodFREN2103 - The Renaissance PeriodFREN2104 - The Seventeenth CenturyFREN2105 - Enlightenment & Revolution: the 18th Century FREN2106 - The 19th CenturyFREN2107 - Exploration of Self and Form: the Contemporary Period FREN2108 - France: Culture & SocietyFREN2110 - Contesting Frenchness: Francophone LiteraturesGERM1001 - Modern German LanguageGERM1104 - Introduction to German Film since 1945GERM1106 - An Introduction to German LinguisticsGERM2002 - Modern German
Language II GERM2103 - Aspects of 20th Century German
History GERM2105 - History of the German LanguageGERM2106 - Love, Violence &
Laughter: Medieval and Early Modern German Literature and Culture up to 1740 GERM2107 - Debating
Enlightenment: Literature and Culture 1740 - 1870GERM2108 - The Challenge of Modernity: Literature and Culture from 1870 to the Present GERM2111 - Metropolen ITAL2020 - Second Year Italian Language ITAL2106 – Italian RomanticismITAL2112 – Futurism in ItalyITAL2113 - Docudrama in
Contemporary Italian CinemaITAL2116 - Fascist anti-Semitism and the Race Laws of 1938: origins, application and memory ITAL2117 - Writing Women in Renaissance ItalySCAN2001 - Intermediate
DanishSCAN2002 - Intermediate
SwedishSCAN2003 - Intermediate
NorwegianSCAN2004 - Intermediate Modern IcelandicSCAN2222 - Scandinavian
Literature in ContextSCAN2402 - Intermediate Old NorseSCAN7203 - An Extended Essay in Scandinavian StudiesSCAN7214 - Vikings and Valkyries in Contemporary Culture SCAN7310 - Politics and Society in the Nordic Countries, 1990s and AfterSCAN7405 - Viking-Age ScandinaviaSCAN7540 - Nordic CinemaSPAN2001 - Spanish Language
IISPAN2103 - What Women Want: La RegentaSPAN2109 - Women's Writing in
Latin America ISPAN2110 - Women's Writing in Latin America IISPAN2120 - The Essay in Spanish AmericaSPAN2121 - Introduction to Latin American CinemaSPAN2307 - The Subaltern in Latin American CultureSPAN2320 - The Literature of the Spanish InquisitionSPAN2400 - History of Colonial Latin AmericaSPAN2401 - History of Spain in the 20th CenturySPAN7302 - The Theatre in
Spain's Golden Age These courses are not available to joint honours students.PORT2010 - Intermediate
Portuguese PORT2201 - The Golden Age of
Portuguese Travel Literature PORT2310 - 20th-Century Brazilian Literary Works into Film These courses are not available to joint honours students.HIST6410 - History of Latin America c.1830-c.1930 Please note - this 1.0cu module is subject to availability (please be aware the History
department may not be in a position to approve/reject requests until the Friday
before the week teaching commences) and approval from the SELCS UG Tutor.  Guidance on registering for History modules.LITC2001 Imitation,
     Invention, AuthorshipLITC2002 Word, Image,
     SoundLITC2004 Urban Tales: The City in East Asian Literature LITC2005 Consumer Culture: Literature, History, Theory   Additional Comparative Literature Modules available in our partner departments.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0
course units / 15 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level
5)
 Total Learning Hours: 300
Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2 Tutor: Christine Sas and language assistantsTeaching structure: Four hours a week are devoted to extending knowledge and proficiency of language across a variety of genres and discourses. One hour per week is devoted specifically to listening and speaking tasks.Assessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (35%); one oral examination (30%); and continuous assessment including vocabulary and listening tests, essays and grammar assignments (35%).Module Description:Topics cover current affairs, debates and cultural issues in the Low Countries. Language tasks in this course require a more sustained presentation of information and argumentation, in both speaking and writing.  There are additional conversation sessions with a student language assistant.  Students are expected to take increasing responsibility for identifying their own strengths and weaknesses and for taking remedial action as appropriate. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Students should obtain a copy of Routledge Intensive Dutch Course (London/New York: Routledge 2006). In the second term, students will be required to purchase Wijze Woorden (Amsterdam: Intertaal 2002), a Dutch academic vocabulary textbook, in preparation for the year abroad.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(DUTC2101A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars
take place at the same times as DUTC2101.)Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level
5)
  Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1 Tutor: Ulrich TiedauAssessment: DUTC2101: two 1500 word essays (25% each) and one unseen two-hour written examination (50%).DUTC2101A: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Available to: While it is mainly aimed at students of Dutch, the module is open to all students with an interest in the 20th and 21st century history of these two neighbouring countries of the UK. Knowledge of Dutch is not required.Module Description: This is a module about political, social, cultural and economic change in the Benelux countries from the inter-war period to the present. Among the themes covered are: the crisis of democracy in the 1930s; collaboration, resistance and accommodation during the German occupation of World War II; Dutch, Belgian and Luxembourgian post-war politics;  the Cold War and European integration; development of the modern welfare state; cultural revolution and new social movements in the 1960s; linguistic and inter-communal tensions and federalisation of Belgium; and immigration and the recent 'crisis of multiculturalism' in the Netherlands.The module aims to:Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:The following textbook, a standard history, provides back-up to the programme (copies of which are held in the College library):For a shorter survey of the history of the Benelux countries, please check out the following work:The module uses Online teaching and learning resources that are available on Moodle.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(DUTC2203A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars
take place at the same times as DUTC2203.)Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level
5)
  Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1 Tutor: Hans DemeyerAssessment: DUTC2203: one 2500 word coursework essay (70%); and one seminar presentation (30%).DUTC2203A: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module Description: This module explores the theme of identity and community in the
literature of the Netherlands and Flanders. We will look at fiction that deals
with questions of belonging, power, diversity and mechanisms of in- and
exclusion. The module will start from contemporary reflections on the loss of a
sense of community within a context of globalization and will then return to
the beginning of the 20th century. Our module will follow the course
of history by discussing literary texts that correspond to modernism (and its
utopias), to the disillusion after World War II and to postmodernism (and its
unravelling of utopias). We will analyse processes of identification (gender,
class, religion, politics, race) and the shifts in sense of time, space and
belonging throughout the twentieth century.  The primary texts have been chosen with students' language competence in
mind. Primary
Reading may include (fragments of):- Peter Verhelst, Geschiedenis van een berg. - Ferdinand Bordewijk, Blokken - Gerard Reve, De avonden - Paul Mennes, Soap - Cees Nooteboom, Rituelen - Willem Elsschot, Het dwaallichtPlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level
5)
  Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term: Term 2 
 
 Tutor: Christine Sas Assessment: two essays weighed at 30% and 70% eachAvailable to: While it is mainly aimed at students of Dutch, the module is open to all students. Knowledge of Dutch is not required.Module Description: In this course we look at debates surrounding multiculturalism,
identity, citizenship and immigration. We look at different interpretations of
multiculturalism as philosophical perspectives on the relationships between
different cultural communities. The course explores how these perspectives have
been acted out across time and place, from the ‘melting pot’ idea in the US in
the early 20th century to governmental policies encouraging immigrants to
maintain their home language and culture. The focus will be on the changing
policies and views on the multicultural debate in the Netherlands, but this
will be set in a global context. We also explore the notions of national
identity which are evoked in the multicultural debate and look at government
and media responses to this, such as the implementation of the canon of the
Dutch history as part of the curriculum at schools. The module
explores the backlash discourses around multiculturalism which have become more
and more prominent over the last few years. Students will read
academic, media reports, and will also look at film, art and
autobiographies where appropriate.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Full yearConvenor: Marie FournierTutor: various Assessment: one unseen three-hour written exam (100%). Satisfactory attendance and 
completion of the coursework are normally prerequisites for examination 
entry.Students must pass this module to progress onto their Year Abroad.Module Description:This second-year module requires students to respond in French to a 
variety of texts and other stimuli in linguistic situations such as 
dialogue, group presentation, synopsis, judgment etc. A variety of 
topics (all linked to French or francophone culture and actualités) will
 be covered.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.  The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Full yearConvenor: Ms Marie FournierTutor: various Assessment: twenty minute oral examination (100%).Module Description:This second-year module requires students to respond in French to a 
variety of texts and other stimuli in linguistic situations such as 
dialogue, group presentation, synopsis, judgment etc. A variety of 
topics (all linked to French or francophone culture and actualités) will
 be covered.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.  The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 1 Tutor: Mr James AgarAssessment: Two essays of 2000 words each (weighting 50% each) Module Description:This course aims
to contextualise and introduce key concepts in French postwar (literary) theory
by focusing on two of the key figures involved: Michel Foucault and Roland
Barthes. Post-war (literary) theory is characterized by an explosion in the
understanding of the ways literature, culture and thought can be approached and
conceptualized. The experience of literature is connected by these thinkers and
writers to experiences of philosophy, linguistics, sociology, history,
sexuality, as well as to the other arts.The first half of
term will focus on Michel Foucault, and his investigations of the ways in which
our understanding is structured by particular configurations of knowledge, and
the assumptions and desires which drive it. In the second half of term,
the course will focus on Roland Barthes, and the ways in which his
investigations into history, myth and ideology, for example, force readers into
an active kind of reading, and makes an engagement with writing a way of
resisting a range of cultural and ideological orthodoxies. The work of both
figures will be linked by their shared concern with issues of authority and
authorship, two areas of direct concern to literary study.The course will
be taught in a combination of tutor-led discussions and student-led
presentation and seminar debates. The aim is to engage with detailed close
reading of specific theoretical texts rather than presenting a wide overview of
the proliferating field of post-war theory and its approaches.The texts listed
below are the core texts for reading
and discussion. However, some will be discussed in more depth than others,
depending on the seminar format. There will also be some supplementary and
contextualising materials which will be required reading. Secondary reading
lists will be provided via Moodle. Set texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Jane GilbertTeaching structure: The term is divided into two halves: Christianity and its Others and The Court, Courtoisie and Courtly Love.Assessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (100%).Module Description:Christianity and its OthersIn
 the eleventh and twelfth centuries, energetic European expansion (in 
particular through the Crusades in Spain, North Africa, the Middle East 
and the Eastern Christian empire of Byzantium) coincided with the 
cultural development of vernacular French literature, which found many 
of its earliest resources in various non-Christian cultures (Latin, 
Arabic, Celtic). This module will explore some of the ways in which Old
 French literary texts represent Christians and the ‘pagans’ with whom 
they come into contact in encounters dramatized as violent, erotic 
and/or burlesque. We shall study epic, romance and comic texts. We shall
 analyse the kinds of desire engaged in the differing representations of
 the pagan other, and explore also how true to life (or otherwise – 
mainly otherwise!) these literary pagans were.The Court, Courtoisie and Courtly LoveThe
 Court provides the setting for much medieval literature. Often depicted
 as a luxurious place, the epitome of elegance and refinement, it is 
also seen as a destructive environment, full of jealousy, spite and 
scandal. We shall look at examples of literature produced for courts and
 depicting the people who live there. What are the pleasures of such a 
life, and what are its constraints? To what extent is life governed by 
codes of courtesy, and what problems do these codes create? In 
particular we shall examine the code of courtly love, what it was, and 
how it was problematised in some of the key works of medieval 
literature.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Christianity and its OthersThe Court, Courtoisie and Courtly LovePlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Thibaut Maus de RolleyAssessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (100%) Module Description: This module focuses on Renaissance
discourses of love: we will read the love poetry of Pierre de Ronsard (Les Amours, 1552-84) and Louise Labé (Sonnets, 1555), as well as Marguerite de
Navarre’s collection of short stories, the Heptaméron
(1559). (We will start with Ronsard, followed by Labé, and then Navarre.)
This will be an opportunity to explore key aspects of the period: love, of
course, its different conceptions, themes and rituals; but also sex; the representation of women and of the body; imitation; petrarchism;
neoplatonism; eroticism; poetry
and the visual arts.  In doing so, we will pay particular
attention to three questions: How is it possible for a poet to do new things by
imitating other poets, and to express something apparently as intimate and
subjective as love by repeating familiar forms, words and images? What happens
when women write in forms that had traditionally been used by men, and from
passive objects of desire, suddenly become the active subjects of an erotic and
artistic discourse? What do these literary discourses teach us – or forget to
teach us – about the social and cultural history of love and sex in the
Renaissance?Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please make sure you purchase the recommended editions. Further secondary reading will be
provided in due course. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2Tutor: To be confirmed Teaching structure: SeminarsAssessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (100%).Module Description:In the first part of the course, we will read a range of plays that raise questions about female desire and the place of women in state politics, the political impact of revenge and clemency, and the role of religion. To portray power on stage is to some extent to question its foundation, and we will explore the ways theatre reflected upon the political while staging gender issues.The seventeenth-century also saw the rise of new forms of expression. In the second part of the course we will take on the new social formations of court culture under Louis XIV. Lafayette’s novel will introduce us to the claustrophobic milieu of social espionage, while La Fontaine’s witty and sophisticated animal fables will guide us through a world of savage desires. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Kevin Inston Assessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (100%).Module Description:The socially critical and
intellectually progressivist literature called 'Enlightenment writing',
published under, and against, the Ancien Régime, is much discussed for its role
in fostering the collective atmosphere of the French Revolution of 1789, as
well as the modern democratic and imperialist institutions that emerged after
the Revolution. For today’s specialists, the writings studied in this module
had little or no impact on the ensuing social institutions, but certainly helped
to give birth to the egalitarian sensibilities, values and attitudes
fundamental to modern democracies. This module studies tensions and clashes
within the anti-authoritarian or non-authoritarian modes of writing, the
hybrid, transgressive uses of genre, aesthetic preoccupations, philosophical
and political principles and social critique contained in five controversial
works, as well as the reverberation of events.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2Tutors: Dr Roland Lack and Professor Andy LeakAssessment: one assessed 2000-word essay (50%) and one two hour unseen desk examination (50%)Module Description: Concentrating
on the novel, this module examines a series of major issues in relation to
nineteenth-century literature: its relations to revolution in the aesthetic,
political and social spheres; its awareness of the world beyond the frontiers
of Metropolitan France; its focus on the seemingly real and the everyday; its
formal experimentation; its preoccupation with the new category of experience
called ‘modernité’. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 1 Convenor: Professor Andrew LeakAssessment: two-hour written examination in term 3 (covering all components of FREN2107).Student workload:  prescribed reading; secondary reading as assigned; one practice essay; other work as assigned by course tutor.Module Description:This
module will examine four French texts from the twentieth century – a novel, a
piece of ‘life-writing’ and two influential theoretical texts. The focus of the
module will be on how these texts engage with modern forms of alienation. In so
doing, it will explore the implications of their innovation at the level of
form for the representation of the self.Set Texts:Roland Barthes, Mythologies
(Editions du Seuil, 1957)Georges Perec, Les
Choses (Julliard, 1965)Annie Ernaux, La
Place (Gallimard Folio, 1983)Guy Debord, La
Société du spectacle (Gallimard, 1993, 3rd Edition) [Also
available as a PDF at:http://classiques.uqac.ca/contemporains/debord_guy/societe_du_spectacle/societe_du_spectacle.pdf]Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2Tutor: Professor Philippe MarlièreTeaching structure: The module combines 10 lectures and 10 seminar classes.Assessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (100%).  Students will make one oral presentation at the beginning of a seminar class and submit a 1,500 word practice essay.Module Description:This module discusses the question of citizenship in 
multicultural France. It tackles the issues of immigration, nationality 
and citizenship in France, and looks at the French philosophy of 
integration through the study of the French republican tradition. Other 
topics on the module include the relationship between laïcité, the 
French politicised conception of secularism, and religion. The module 
concentrates on the legal, philosophical and political components of 
French citizenship and overall attempts to answer the following 
question: how to be French?It explores 
theoretical, historical and sociological aspects of the question; old 
and recent debates which revolve around the issue of French citizenship.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:All set texts and reading material (bibliography, 
practice essay questions, etc.) will be posted on Moodle by the 
beginning of Term 1.Background reading:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2Tutor: Professor Andrew LeakAssessment: two-hour desk examination (100%)Coursework: Students may be required to complete short written assignments or give presentations in class. Satisfactory attendance at classses is a prerequisite for entry into the assessment process.Module Description:This course aims to introduce a selection of
texts from twentieth-century francophone literature, examining the formal and
aesthetic preoccupations of francophone writings politically contesting
Frenchness. This course also explores the engagement of francophone writers
with a range of topics such as alienation, identity, tradition, modernity,
colonialism, ethnicity, sexuality, language, bilingualism and biculturalism.Set Texts:Supplementary Reading:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This
module is for Year 2 students who studied GERM1001 in their First Year. It is
not available to students who studied GERM1002.Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course units / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level 5)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1 and Term 2 
Tutor: various
Teaching structure: One
hour per week will be devoted to English-German translation and a
second hour to German-English translation and reading comprehension.
Assessment: one unseen
three-hour written examination involving translation into German (30%)
translation into English (30%) and one comprehension passage (30%); and coursework (10%).Module Description:This module builds on work completed in
the first year, using translation and comprehension exercises to
enhance fluency in reading, writing and understanding contemporary
German, as well as continuing to explore its relation to English. Passages for translation and comprehension will include contemporary
literary, historical and journalistic texts.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level 5)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1
Tutor: Professor Mark HewitsonTeaching structure: Term1 2-hour weekly seminar taught in English consisting of lectures, class
discussions and student presentations. Moodle to be used as a repository for
reading materials as well as for preparatory assignments.
Course Requirement: One presentation, three thinkpieces, one practice essay
Assessment: One take-home paper (100%)Module Description:In this class, students will grapple
with the significance of the Weimar and Nazi eras for modern German history.
 Topics will include the characteristic features of Weimar culture and
politics, the origins of the National Socialist movement and its rise to power,
the National Socialists’ utopian vision and their various efforts to implement
it, and the relationship between state and society.  Students will also
consider the nature of everyday life, the persecution of Jews and other
minorities, the uses of terror, the horrific culmination of the Nazi regime’s
ideological goals in the Second World War and the Holocaust, and, finally, the
memory of the period.   Upon successful
completion of the class, students will be able to explain political and social
dynamics at work in Weimar and Nazi Germany, discuss historiographical trends
relating to the era, make effective use of secondary and primary sources, and
present a coherent historical analysis in written and oral form. This will
allow students to historicise the period and critically comment on the ways
that it continues to shape contemporary society in Germany, Britain, and
beyond.  Preparatory
reading and set texts: Bergen, D., The Holocaust: A New
History (2008). Bessel, R. (ed.), Life in the Third Reich
(1987). Burleigh, M. and W. Wipperman, The Racial
State: Germany 1933-45 (1991). Caplan, J. (ed.), Nazi Germany (The Short Oxford History of Germany)
(2008). Crew, D. (ed.), Nazism and German Society 1933-1945 (1994).  Evans, R. J., The Coming of the Third Reich / The Third Reich
in Power / The Third Reich at War (2004-2008). Friedländer, S., Nazi Germany and the Jews, 2 vols. (1997, 2007). Gay, P., Weimar Culture: The Outsider as Insider (1974). Gregor, N. (ed.) Nazism (2000). Kershaw, I., The Nazi Dictatorship: Problems and Perspectives of
Interpretation, 4th ed. (2000). McElligott, A., Weimar Germany (Short Oxford History of Germany)
(2009). Overy, R., The Third Reich: A Chronicle (2011). Smith, H.W., The Oxford Handbook of
Modern German History (2011). Weitz, E. D., Weimar Germany: Promise and Tragedy (2007). Williamson, D. G., The
Third Reich (Seminar Studies in History), 4th ed. (2011).   Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate level (level 5)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: term 2
Tutor: Dr Geraldine HoranAssessment: one
assessed 2,500 word essay (50%); and one unseen two-hour examination (50%).
Three essays on topics covered in the course will be written in the
examination. You may not answer on the same topic of your assessed essay.Module Description: Have you ever wondered
where the German language came from, what it means that German belongs to the
'Germanic family of languages', or why there is High and Low German? This
module aims to provide some answers. We will chart emergence of the German
language from its pre-historic Indo-European beginnings to its establishment as
a major literary, philosophical and international language of the modern age.
The course will be divided in to four major sections: From Indo-European to Old
High German; Characteristics of Medieval German; Early New High German;
Developments in New High German the present day.   Preparatory reading and set texts:   Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level 5)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1 and Term 2
Tutor: Dr Sebastian CoxonTeaching structure: The module is conducted through a mixture of lecture
and discussion classes; one hour per week over two terms. 
Assessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay (50%); and one unseen two-hour
written examination (50%).Note: 

This module is not available to students who
took GERM1002 in Year 1 Module Description: This module will cover major
narrative texts from the Middle Ages and the Early Modern period. Consideration
will be given to both predominant themes (courtliness and heroism; conflicting
demands of love and society; transgression) and broader literary theoretical
questions (alterity; developments in medieval narrative technique; textual
in/stability).  Students will have plenty of
opportunity to learn to read medieval texts in the original. Preparatory Reading and Set
Texts: · Topic I: Das
Nibelungenlied. Nach der Handschrift B, ed. Ursula
Schulze, Stuttgart 2011etc (Reclam 18914) · Topic II: Wernher der
Gärtner: Helmbrecht, ed. Fritz
Tschirch, Stuttgart 1974etc (Reclam 9498) · Topic III: Hartmann
von Aue: Iwein, ed. Rüdiger Krohn, Stuttgart 2008etc (Reclam
18530) Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level 5)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1 and Term 2
Tutor: Reinier van StratenAssessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay	(50%); one unseen two-hour written examination	(50%).Module Description:This module will examine a representative selection of
German literature from the Enlightenment to the late 19th century, focusing on
the question how important literary epochs, from the Enlightenment itself to
Poetic Realism, have engaged with and 'debated' the concept of Enlightenment.
The module introduces students to texts by the century's most acknowledged authors,
including Kant, Lessing, Goethe, Schiller, Eichendorff, Heine, Kleist, Büchner,
and Keller. The module thus offers a broad overview over and explicitly links
the century's most important literary and intellectual movements, while at the
same time complementing the core modules GERM2106- Love, Violence and Laughter: Medieval and Early Modern German Literature and Culture up to 1740 and GERM2108- The Challenge of Modernity: Literature and Culture from 1870 to the Present.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Recommended English translations for ab initio students will be confirmed in due
course. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level 5)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1 and Term 2
Tutor: Dr Annie RingAssessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay (50%); one unseen two-hour written examination (50%). **Module Description:This course explores some of
the most exciting - and disturbing - ideas and artworks of the fast-moving
modern age. It reflects the ways in which, from the late nineteenth-century
onwards, the German-speaking world seemed to be turned upside-down by shocking
historical events, radical ideas and new cultural forms. The works studied in
this course show how these developments could be experienced as exhilarating,
disturbing, liberating, traumatic - or all of these at once. The module begins
with writing from the German Empire after 1871, and then considers classic
texts of early modernism, to the Weimar years and the rise of Nazism, to the
Third Reich. Finally, it looks at important currents in cultural and
socio-political life of the post-1945 period.Primary
Reading/Viewing   · Walter Benjamin, ‘Das Kunstwerk im Zeitalter seiner
technischen Reproduzierbarkeit’ (1936) · Slatan Dudow, Bertolt Brecht et al., Kuhle Wampe oder Wem gehört die Welt
(film, 1932) · Theodor Fontane, Effi Briest (1896) · Günter Grass, Im
Krebsgang (2002) · Franz Kafka, Die
Verwandlung (1916) · Thomas Mann, Der
Tod in Venedig (1912) · Monika Maron, Pawels
Briefe (1999) · Friedrich Nietzsche, ‘Über Wahrheit und Lüge im
außermoralischen Sinne‘ (1873) · Leni Riefenstahl, Olympia (1938) · Rainer Maria Rilke, Neue Gedichte (1907) · Arthur Schnitzler, Reigen (1920) Feel free to
use any modern edition of the above texts. They should all be easily available
in paperback. Films will be made available to view.Primary Reading for ab initio students only  · Walter Benjamin, ‘The Work of Art in the Age of
Mechanical Reproduction‘ (1936), in Walter Benjamin, The Work of Art in the Age
of Mechanical Reproduction, trans. by J.A. Underwood (London: Penguin 2008),
pp. 1-50  · Theodor Fontane, Effi Briest (1896), trans. by Helen Chambers and Hugh Rorrison
(London: Penguin, 2000)  · Günter Grass, Crabwalk
(2002), trans. by Krishna Wilson (London: Faber and Faber, 2004)  · Franz Kafka, ‘The Metamorphosis’ (1915) in Franz
Kafka, The Metamorphosis and Other
Stories, trans. by Joyce Crick (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2009), pp.
29-74  · Thomas Mann, ‘Death in Venice’ (1912), in Thomas
Mann, Death in Venice and Other Stories,
trans. by David Luke (London: Vintage, 1998), pp. 197-267  · Monika Maron, Pavel’s
Letters, trans. by Brigitte Goldstein (London: Harvill, 2002) · Friedrich Nietzsche, ‘On Truth and Lies in a
Nonmoral Sense’ (1873), in From Modernism
to Postmodernism: An Anthology (expanded second edition), ed. by Lawrence
Cahoone (Oxford: Blackwell, 2003), pp. 109-16  · Rainer Maria Rilke, New Poems / Neue Gedichte (1907), trans. by Stephen Cohn
(Manchester: Carcanet, 2004)  · Arthur Schnitzler, ‘Round Dance’ (1920) in Arthur
Schnitzler, Round Dance and Other Plays,
trans. by J.M.Q. Davies (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2004)  Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:  ** Please note that this module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination.  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This
module is for Year 2 students who studied GERM1001 in their First Year. It is
not available to students who studied GERM1002.Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level 5)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1 and Term 2
Tutor:  VariousAssessment: Two take-home essays (one 1,000-word, 25%; one 1,500-word,
45%); and one twenty minute oral examination (30%). One essay will be on a
literary/cultural subject, the other on a political/historical subject. The
oral examination will be a report (Referat) on a topic set by the module tutor
and will be recorded, given in teams of four, and based on outline notes only.Module Description:This is an integrated language-culture module for second-year students. It is taught entirely in German and
designed as preparation for university-level study or work experience
during the Year Abroad. As such, it functions on two levels: 1. Content:
This module aims to provide students with the literary, cultural and
political history of the two capitals of Germany and Austria. The module will teach analytical skills in German using a number of texts,
from literary genres (poetry, drama, prose) to non-literary genres
(newspaper articles, political speeches, editorials). 2. Language acquisition:
All work for this module (reading, writing, speaking) must be done in
German. Specific language acquisition goals of the module are to:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0
course units / 15 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level
5)
  Total Learning Hours: 300
Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2
 
 Tutor: variousAssessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (65%); one 
oral examination (25%); and assessed coursework (10%). This is an intensive mandatory module for all students who are studyingItalian in any Modern Languages and Modern Languages Plus combination, as wellas for those following the single honours Italian BA.Module Description: The module assumes a satisfactory performance in the first 
year Italian language module. The aim of the module is to develop knowledge and 
use of Italian and a knowledge and understanding of Italian culture sufficient 
for students to cope successfully with the demands of their Year Abroad 
programme in Italy. In view of this, the module will also aim at developing 
increasing autonomy in student learning, including the ability to identify and 
plan individual strategies for the learning of Italian and the study of 
literary, historical and other subjects in Italian.Set Texts:A. Latino - M. Muscolino, Una grammatica italiana per tutti (Volume 2, B1-B2), Edilingua (Please note that Edilingua has just published a new edition of this book but the old version is equally fine) A. Filippone - S. Radicchi, Caccia ai tesori (B1-C1), LoescherA. De Giuli - C.M. Naddeo, Opera!, AlmaExtra material for the course will be uploaded on Moodle.Students must own 
a bilingual dictionary. We recommend Oxford Paravia Italian 
Dictionary English-Italian Italian-English, Milan, Paravia Bruno Mondadori 
Editori, 2001 (or a later edition).Books can be purchased from the Italian Bookshop with a 10% discount.  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level
5)
  Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Enrico PalandriAssessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (100%); and coursework.Module Description:This module focuses on two major Italian authors of the early 
nineteenth century. Manzoni’s promessi sposi and Leopardi’s Canti and Operette 
morali are studied in relation to the Italian debate on Romanticism and to 
European culture and society. Manzoni’s practice as a historical novelist is 
examined in the context of contemporary discussions of history and fiction. The 
links between Leopardi’s poetry and his thought are explored. Close attention is 
paid to individual texts.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:There are many good annotated editions of 
Manzoni’s I promessi sposi. Good English translations have been published by 
Dent (Everyman’s Library) and Penguin.  For Leopardi’s Canti the best commentaries are in the Meridiani (Milan,
Mondadori 1987) ed.  M.A. Rigoni. Leopardi’s
Zibaldone is now available in English., (Farrar, Strauss and Giroux,New York  2013)  On the two writers, see:  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(ITAL2112A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars
take place at the same times as ITAL2112.) Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level
5)
  Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1 Tutor: Professor Robert LumleyAssessment: ITAL2112: two 2500 word essays (50% each).ITAL2112A: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module description:The course examines
responses to modernity in Italy in the early 20th century, to phenomena such as
the rise of the city, electrification, new modes of transport, and cinema.
These developments represented a threat to values based on a traditional and
rural society, while they promised utopian possibilities of transformation. The
Futurist movement, under the leadership of Marinetti, welcomed the new in its
battle against an Italy of passatismo. It presented the world with a stream of
manifestos for change on every subject, from the visual arts to theatre,
literature, love and cooking. The course situates Futurism within a wider
cultural and historical context, paying special attention to the manifestoes
and other writings. It focuses on the visual arts and the remarkable role of
this avant-garde in inventing new forms across a range of media from painting
and sculpture to graphics and photography, and in exercising an international
influence. By looking at the careers of artists (Balla, Boccioni, Carrà,
Severini, Russolo) before, during and after their Futurist phase, the course
examines how and why they adopted different attitudes to the movement and to
the politics of nationalism and fascism espoused by Marinetti. Finally, it
reviews the international reception and exhibition of Futurist art in the 20th
and 21st centuries.
 
  Preparatory reading and set texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level
5)
  Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Carlotta Ferrara degli UbertiAssessment: 2 assessed essays of 2500 words each (50% each) Module Description:The starting point of the module will be an
introduction to the history of anti-Semitism: definition(s), evolution,
typologies. This first step will be followed by a presentation of the
historical context of the 1920s-1930s and of the characteristics of the Fascist
regime, with a particular focus on the cultural aspects. At this point it will
be possible to approach the topic of the origins and evolution of Fascist
racism and anti-Semitism and of the debates and documents leading to the Race
Laws of 1938. The application of these Laws and its practical and moral
consequences on Jewish life and identity will be analyzed following the most
recent research. Students will be given the opportunity to read primary
sources, and to reflect on the place of Fascism and Fascist anti-Semitism in
Italian history and the connection between historiography and memory. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				  Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level
5)
  Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Lisa SampsonAssessment: 2 assessed
essays of 2500 words each (50% each)Module description:Italy
was exceptional in 16thC Europe for the number and adventurousness
of the publications
produced by women. This module explores this phenomenon by looking at literary
practices and ideas on gender and women in Italy c.1380-1600 in a selection of
texts by Boccaccio, Vittoria Colonna, Veronica Franco and Moderata Fonte. These
writers will be studied in the context of significant social, historical and
intellectual shifts over the period, such as the rise of printing, the
Counter-Reformation, and challenges to Aristotelian thought on women. The
module will also consider topics related to the representation of women: sex vs
gender, the literary canon, the Renaissance debate on women (querelle des femmes), petrarchism,
religious culture, and neoplatonic ideas on beauty and love. The second part of
the module focuses particularly on 16thC Venice: it explores print
culture, literary networks, and courtesan and erotic culture. The
module builds on ITAL1118 Introduction to
Renaissance Italy, and will be taught using primary sources in Italian,
though post-beginners can refer to English translations.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:· Giovanni Boccaccio, Il Decamerone, any edition (selected novelle)· Giovanni Boccaccio, De Mulieribus Claris (Famous
Women), ed. and trans. Virginia Brown (Harvard University Press, 2001), (selected
biographies)· Vittoria Colonna, Rime, ed. by Alan Bullock (Rome, 1982)/[www.bibliotecaitaliana.it];
selected sonnets: ‘Rime amorose’, 1, 11, 63, 73, 76, 82; ‘Rime spirituali’, 1,
5, 78· Veronica Franco, Rime, in Poems and Selected
Letters translated by Ann R. Jones and Margaret F. Rosenthal (Chicago:
Chicago University press, 1998)]   · Veronica Franco, Lettere, ed. Stefano Bianchi (Rome: Salerno, 1998) [transl. in
Rosenthal ed.]  · Moderata Fonte, Il merito delle donne [1600], ed. by A. Chemello (Venice: Eidos,
1988) [transl. in Fonte, M., The Worth of
Women: Wherein Is Clearly Revealed Their Nobility and Their Superiority to Men,
ed. and transl. by Virginia Cox (Chicago: Chicago University Press, 1997)] Background reading· Hutson, Lorna, ed., Feminism and Renaissance Studies (Oxford, 1999)· Cox, Virginia, Women’s Writing in Italy 1400-1650 (Baltimore, 2008) · Cox, Virginia, The Prodigious Muse: Women’s Writing in Counter-Reformation Italy
(Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press, 2011)· Wiesner, Merry E., Women and Gender in Early
Modern Europe (Cambridge, 1993)· Panizza, Letizia and Wood, Sharon, eds, A
History of Women’s Writing in Italy (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press,
2000)· Benson, Pamela J., The Invention of the
Renaissance Woman: the Challenge of Female Independence in the Literature and
Thought of Italy and England (University Park, PA, 1992)Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level
5)
  Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 2 Convenor: Dr Eleanor ChiariAssessment: two 2000
word essays (50% each)Module description:This module builds
upon the LCUL1001 Language, Culture and Representation core course from year one (though students
are not required to have taken it to take it). The aim of this module is to get students to
practice applying cultural theory to a wide range of texts and
materials. Students will read a selection of original writings from famous
cultural theorists  as well as examples of academic applications of
these theories.  They will then be asked to do their own analysis of original
fiction/film/art in light of the theorists they have studied. Each week
they will be asked to either present on this material or to write short
non-assessed pieces of writing grappling with these theories. In addition to
discussing theory together in class  we will spend part of
every lesson assessing student writing and ideas together to polish and
perfect academic writing and critical thinking around complex academic and
visual texts.Preliminary reading list:Specific theorists will be chosen (still to be
confirmed). Students will be asked to read a selection of key texts by the
cultural theorist as well as works by scholars who make 'use' of the theorists.
They will then be given a specific work of fiction/film/photography/art and
will be asked to reflect on the ways such a piece can be interpreted in light
of the theories discussed in class. First Example:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
30
UCL credits / 1.0 course units / 15 ECTS  Level: Intermediate level (level 5)
 Total Learning Hours: 300
 Term/s: Full YearTutor: Dr Joana Rita RamalhoTeaching structure: The class meets 4 hours per week in two 2-hour
classes. The teaching is divided into four main components: Oral, Grammar, Translation
into Portuguese and Translation into English. Other
skills, such as listening and reading comprehension and writing skills, are
included in each of the four components.Assessment: Final Desk Exam with components of Grammar, Translation into Portuguese and Translation
into English (50%); Oral Exam (20%); Coursework (30%). The
coursework consists of two grammar quizzes, two oral presentations,
two writing exercises, two translations into Portuguese and two translations
into English. The breakdown for coursework marks is 3% for each
componentModule Description:Taken over two terms,
this is an intermediate course that builds on and consolidates previous
knowledge of the Portuguese language. Students must have been enrolled in the
Beginners’ course (PORT1010) offered by the department or must have otherwise
undertaken an equivalent course in a different institution or possess basic
speaking, writing, and listening skills through self-study. This module
consolidates your linguistic ability at Level B1 of the Common European
Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR), with some aspects of Level B2
also explored. By the end of the second term, students are expected to master
complex structures of written and spoken Portuguese. You should be able to
communicate fluently in a variety of contexts and deal with most situations
likely to arise when travelling in a Lusophone country. Students will be
developing skills in reading and translating short literary and non-fiction
texts in a variety of registers, including poems, short stories, novels,
newspaper articles and commentaries. Students explore the conventions of
European and Brazilian Portuguese, and can continue to develop their preference
for one or the other variety. Connections are encouraged to the materials
studied on Year 2 PORT content modules. Cultural aspects of the wider Lusophone world
will be introduced, preparing students for the Year Abroad. To learn more about
the Year Abroad, which students can spend in Brazil, Portugal, or (with work
placements) any other Lusophone country, follow this
link. We will encourage you to work over the summer to ensure that you make the
best of your stay abroad.Course materials: Your tutor will make use of a combination of online
resources, grammars, textbooks and other materials. You are asked to bring the
following book (the same as for PORT1010) to class: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(PORT2201A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The module takes place at the same time as PORT2201.)Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Intermediate Level (level 5)
 Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Zoltán BiedermannAssessment: PORT2201: one 3000 word essay (40%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (60%).
PORT2201A:1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). 
Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS. Module Description: This module
will introduce you to the critical study of Portuguese travel narratives,
geographical and ethnographic texts produced between c.1450 and 1650. We will
read a selection of translated primary texts narrating travels, encounters and
confrontations with extra-European cultures, accompanied by a selection of
secondary literature highlighting the quandaries of the genre’s intertwinements
with imperial expansion and the making of colonial societies in Brazil, Africa
and Asia. To highlight the unique characteristics of Portuguese travel writing,
the course covers the entire globe, but some emphasis will be placed on early
colonial Brazil and the East Indies. The secondary readings will help us to
reflect on questions of literary invention, appropriation and stereotyping in
the representation of other cultures. At the same time, we shall also examine
how travel accounts can function as historical sources and promote a better
understanding of the world that produced them.Please note that this Term 2
module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Primary texts in English translation: Further titles tba. Excerpts from all materials will be available
through Moodle. Please contact the tutor if you wish to read materials in
advance.Core secondary bibliography: Companions to the study of travel writing in general: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Intermediate Level (level 5)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Ana Cláudia Suriani da SilvaAssessment: 1,500 word coursework essay (30%), 15 minute oral presentation in pairs (30%), 2 hour desk examination (40%). Module Description: This module introduces students to 20th-century Brazilian literature and the cinema of Brazil through four novels and their adaptations into film. They reflect key themes of Brazilian literature and cinema: the city, the malandro, the backlands of the Northeast, urban violence, immigration, drought, popular culture and religion, going from Neo Realism and Cinema Novo to today. In addition to providing students with clearer understanding of the history, culture, and socio-economic realities of 20th century Brazil, this module seeks to explore how novels are adapted and interpreted for the screen and to address the question of how can studying film adaptation allows us to better understand what it is that literature does, and vice versa.Method of delivery:Lectures and seminars convened and
facilitated by the individual course tutor. There will be film screenings of
the adaptations and documentaries.Aims of the module:Intended learning outcomes:Upon successful completion of the
course, students are expected:You may start reading the primary texts for this course
before classes begin.Key Texts and films films:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 300Term: Full Year Convenor: Dr Anne GrydehøjTeaching structure: The module will consist of exercises and various
tasks including text-reading and discussion. The various activities will
continually be evaluated and adapted to best suit students’ needs.
 Assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (50%); one oral
examination (30%); and module assessment (20%). Module Description:  The module aims to: build on
and improve students’ strategies and methods for language learning; build on
and improve students’ language skills in speaking, understanding, writing and
reading including basic elements of pronunciation, vocabulary and grammar; enable
the students to express opinions and discuss various topics with some fluency
in both speech and writing, and to understand and read authentic Danish texts
at increasing levels of difficulty. Preparatory Reading and Set
Texts: Texts: The textbook Ordet
er frit (Birte Langgaard; Gyldendal: 2004) will be used, along with various
texts, video and audio materials, and exercises made available on the module
Moodle site. Grammar: It is recommended
that students have their own copy of R. Allan, P. Holmes & T.
Lundskær-Nielsen, Danish. An Essential Grammar (Routledge, 2011). Dictionaries: Dansk-engelsk
ordbog & Engelsk-dansk ordbog (Gyldendal) or similar. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 300Term: Full YearTutor: Ms Annika Lindskog Assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (50%); one oral
examination (30%); and one module assessment (20%).Module Description: The module aims to build on and
improve the students’ existing knowledge of Swedish so as to enable them to
read Swedish texts, understand everyday conversations, and express themselves
fluently in both speech and writing. Through the use of a variety of
techniques (such as study of various types of text, grammar exercises,
translation, conversation on everyday topics, etc.), the students will
gradually improve their spoken and written language.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Texts To be announced at the beginning
of the Autumn Term.    Grammar Dictionaries Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 300Term: Full YearTutor: Dr Elettra CarboneAssessment: one unseen written examination (50%); one oral examination (30%); and one module assessment (20%).Module Description: The module aims to build up and improve the students’ existing knowledge of Norwegian (bokmål), to enable them to read Norwegian (bokmål)
texts, understand everyday conversations, and express themselves well
enough in speech and writing to cope with life at a Norwegian
university in their third year. Besides using the chosen textbooks and workbooks (Mer norsk and Klart det!), once a week students will work a variety of original texts (newspaper articles, short essays, websites, blogs, short documentaries, and film clips) to strengthen their written and oral comprehension skills. Texts will form the basis of class discussion. Written tasks will be assigned as homework from week to week to consolidate the vocabulary encountered in class. Student
participation is essential and there will be conversation and
discussion of general topics, plus translation and listening
comprehension.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: Textbook  GrammarDictionaries All students must own a good
Norwegian-English and English-Norwegian dictionary. One of the
dictionaries must indicate the gender of Norwegian nouns. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 300Term: Full yearTutor: Dr Helga Hlaðgerður LúthersdóttirTeaching structure: The module is taught by
classroom instruction using texts which illustrate everyday life in Iceland,
past and present, and literary texts. As well as taking active part in lessons
the student will be expected to work on short compositions and essays, read
excerpts from several modern Icelandic literary texts, and participate in class
discussions in Icelandic.Assessment: one unseen written examination (50%); one oral examination (30%); and 
one assessed coursework in the form of language portfolio (20%).Module Description: This module aims to
develop the student’s ability to speak and understand, read and write Icelandic
up to an advanced level and to deepen their understanding of the grammar of the
language. Particular attention will be given to impersonal and passive
constructions and to the use of the subjunctive.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Recommended dictionaries Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1Convenor: Dr Elettra CarboneAssessment: One assessed essay (4,000 words; 100%).Module Description: This module aims to introduce students to some of the major
Nordic literary texts (prose, drama, lyric) from 1800 to the present day. The
aim is to develop students’ familiarity with a range of theoretical approaches
to literature by way of considering the works under the four themes of Crime,
Gender, City and Nature. Students will have the opportunity to read texts
written in their chosen Scandinavian language as well as to familiarise
themselves with texts in other Scandinavian languages (for those with no
previous knowledge of a mainland Scandinavian language, all texts will be available
in English translation). Students registered for the BA in Scandinavian Studies
MUST familiarise themselves with the set texts written in their chosen language
in the original language.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:The following texts or similar will be studied in the module: Henrik Ibsen, A Doll's House; August Strindberg, Miss Julie and Other Plays; Knut Hamsun, Hunger; Halldór Laxness, The Atom
Station; Jørgen-Frantz Jacobsen, Barbara; a  selection of nature poems from the nineteenth century; Dan Turèll, Murder in the Dark; extracts from Benny Andersen, The Contract Killer; Erlend Loe, Naïve. Super; extracts from Jan Kjærstad, The Seducer; Jonas Hassen Khemiri, Invasion!Suggested
background reading: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Full YearTutor: Dr Erin GoeresTeaching structure: Classes will take the form of seminar-style discussions
in which the translation of key passages will be set within the wider context
of Old Norse literary criticism and current scholarly debate.Assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (70%); and one 2,500 word essay (30%).Module Description:This module will build on ‘An Introduction to Old Norse’ and will continue
to familiarise students with the language and literature of Viking and medieval
Scandinavia. The first term will focus
on the development and characteristics of the Icelandic saga, while the second
term will explore the mythological treatise Snorra
Edda and the use of Old Norse mythology in eddic and skaldic poetry.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Nearly all
translation passages will be taken from A
New Introduction to Old Norse – Part II: Reader, ed. Anthony Faulkes
(London, 2008). Students are also advised to review topics covered previously
in A New Introduction to Old Norse – Part
1: Grammar, ed. Michael Barnes (London, 2004) before the start of term.
Both volumes, as well as the accompanying glossary, are available online. 
 Set texts
from the Reader will include Njáls saga and Íslendinga saga in the first term, and Skáldskaparmál and Þrymskviða in the second 
term. Additional material will be provided in class.It is strongly recommended that
students read the entirety of Njáls saga in
translation (available in Penguin Classics, The
Complete Sagas of Icelanders or similar) before the start of term. Useful secondary sources include: Useful reference works:Please note that this module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1Tutor:  Dr Helga Hlaogerou LuthersdottirAssessment: one assessed 4000 word essay (100%).Module Description:Norse myths and medieval sagas have been the
source for “popular” cultural trends since the first nationalistic approach of
the Romantics in 19th century Europe. Today, such Norse-based representations
have established a distinct visual and thematic identity within popular culture
transcending national and cultural boundaries. Through study of the source
myths combined with theoretical analysis of various popular texts such as
fantasy and graphic novels, comic books, film, music, video games and MMORPGs
(massively multiplayer online role-playing games), this module will guide students
to situate these depictions within a larger theoretical framework of Nordic
studies and cultural theory, while simultaneously
enabling them to analyse their own relationship with the various
representations of the “popular Norse”.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Primary TextsFilmsSecondary TextsAdditional texts will be introduced as the module progresses. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSPG Value: 30 UCL credits UG Level: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 2
Convenor: Dr Mart KuldkeppTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. UG Assessment: One unseen two-hour written examination (60%); and one 2,500
word essay (40%)PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%)Module
Description:The Nordic
countries have often been regarded as ‘model’ societies, famous for their high
levels of economic prosperity, social equality and political stability. We will
discuss the historical roots of this distinctive ‘Nordic’ experience and how it
has changed since the end of the Cold War, as the Nordic countries have needed
to adopt to new regional, Europe-wide and global developments. This historical
introduction will be followed by a thematic examination of contemporary Nordic
societies in a comparative perspective, looking at the varied legacies of the
‘Nordic model’. Topics to be covered include Nordic foreign and security
policy, domestic politics and the rise of the populist right, immigration and
integration, crime and justice, gender equality, environmentalism and Nordic
co-operation. It should be noted that a focus on the Nordic countries will also
provide a new perspective on some of the most important developments affecting
the whole of Europe over the last 25 years. Preparatory reading and
set texts: There
are no set texts.  .
 
 Notes: This Term 2 module is assessed by both essay and
examination. In order to allow students full coverage of the module, the
deadline for submission of the essay is the beginning of Term 3. In practice,
this will leave no or, at best, limited time to receive feedback on the essay
before the examination.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 300Term: Full YearTutor: Dr Haki AntonssonTeaching structure: The module will be taught through a combination of lectures and seminars.This module is also available as two one-term options, respectively:SCAN7405A - 0.5cu (Term 1)
SCAN7405B - 0.5cu (Term 2)Assessment: SCAN 7405 is assessed by one unseen three-hour written examination (50%); and two 2,500 word essays (25% each).Parts A and B are each assessed by 2 essays each of 2500 words (50% each)Module Description:The module will examine society and culture in Scandinavia in the period ca. 800-1100. Geographically the module will encompass Sweden, Denmark Norway, and the Norse colonies in the North Atlantic (the Faroes, Iceland, and Greenland). In the case of Iceland the time-span will extend to the end of the Commonwealth period (ca. 1262). The principal themes that the module will cover include: the causes of the Viking Age; the development and emergence of the three Scandinavian kingdoms; the nature of the pre-Christian religion; the conversion to Christianity; the development of Church organisation; relation with Europe, in particular the Insular world and the beginning of written culture. Particular emphasis will be placed on presenting and analysing the various source-categories relevant to Viking-Age Scandinavia. These include, for example, runic inscriptions, place-names, archaeological evidence and saga literature.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Claire ThomsonAssessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay (30%); and one assessed 4,000 word project (70%)Module Description:This module has two main objectives: (a) to enable students to develop the skills to analyse films as
texts in their cultural and historical contexts, and (b) to provide an overview
of the development and range of Nordic film as art and industry, within the
broader context of European film history. The module is structured into three blocks, respectively covering early and silent cinema in Denmark, Norway and Sweden; three Nordic auteurs, Dreyer, Bergman and Kaurismäki; and the notion of contemporary 'small-nation cinema', covering Icelandic film, Dogme 95, intercultural cinema and transnational co-production.The module consists of a weekly two-hour (approx) film screening with introduction, followed the next day by a two-hour seminar.  Students are expected to undertake
preparatory reading for lectures and seminars, to attend all
screenings and seminars, and
to watch additional films as necessary. A detailed course outline and week-by-week reading is available on the
module moodle site (UCL user id and login required).The first essay tests students' grasp of film analysis and their ability to apply it to particular films. The second piece of assessment is a project which is independently designed and researched by the student on a topic of his/her choice, under the guidance of the module tutor. Former students of the module have been able to publish outstanding project work under the auspices of the Norvik Press student writings series - see Framed Horizons below.No knowledge of a Scandinavian language is required as all films are subtitled (though a reading ability in a Scandinavian language does give access to a broader range of primary and secondary materials). Students from outside Scandinavian Studies are welcome to enrol, subject to available space.Key texts:  A week-by-week reading list is provided at the start of the module. Students are not expected to buy or read all of the texts below in advance; this list is indicative only.Weekly film screenings:Afgrunden (The Abyss, dir. Urban Gad, Denmark, 1910)Körkarlen (The Phantom Carriage, dir. Victor Sjöström, Sweden, 1920)Den hemmelighetsfulle leiligheten (The Mysterious Apartment, dir. Tancred Ibsen, Norway, 1948)Det sjunde inseglet (The Seventh Seal, dir. Ingmar Bergman, Sweden, 1957)Gertrud (Gertrud, dir. Carl Th. Dreyer, Denmark, 1966)Mies vailla menneisyyttä (The Man without a Past, dir. Aki Kaurismäki, Finland, 2002)Börn náttúrunnar (Children of Nature, dir. Friðrik Þór Friðriksson, Iceland, 1991)
Festen (The Celebration, dir. Thomas Vinterberg, Denmark, 1998)Zozo (dir. Josef Fares, Sweden, 2005)Miss Julie (dir. Liv Ullmann, Norway/Sweden/Ireland, 2014)Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Intermediate Level (level 5)  Total Learning Hours: 150  Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Maria Chiara D'ArgenioTeaching structure: This course
is taught by lectures and seminars which will include regular group discussion.Assessment: one 3000 word essay (40%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (60%). Module Description:This module is based on a
substantial survey of artistic forms which epitomize the difficulties and
limits of representing the Subaltern in Latin America. The figures of the
subaltern chosen include the woman in patriarchal society, the slave in
colonial society, the dispossessed peasantry in rural areas and the worker in a
capitalist society. These are characters whose voices and stories have been (at
least) partially hidden and their narratives culturally muted, albeit
persistent. As exemplified by Sor Juana´s question in the epigraph, the
artistic contributions we will study during this course set out to explore the
tensions existing between the possibility of speaking or subsuming to ‘the art
of saying without saying’.Subaltern studies is about the
representation of the third-world subject, representation in the political
sense of ‘speaking for’ a subject and in the artistic and philosophical sense
of ‘speaking of’ a subject. By examining the subaltern, this course seeks to
address issues such as the relationship between representation and power: which
representations are able to secure cultural domination and which do not.
Following an exploration of different definitions and concepts such as
hegemony, representation, discourse, ideology, positions of power, culture,
silence and subordination, and taking into account key aesthetic proposals
developed in the Latin American context, this course will consider literary,
pictorial, cinematic and historical works which speak to experiences of
subalternity in Latin America.Students should read all the texts listed below and the supplementary readings indicated by the course tutor before the allocated class. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
30
UCL credits / 1.0 course units / 15 ECTS  Level: First Level (level 4)
 Total Learning Hours: 300
 Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2Tutor: variousModule convenors: Adolfo Sánchez Cuadrado & Marga Navarrete Teaching
structure:Assessment 2017-18:
Final Desk Exam with components of
Grammar, Composition in Spanish, Translation into Spanish and Translation into
English (50%); Oral Exam (20%);
Coursework (30%). The coursework consists of two grammar
quizzes, two oral presentations, two writing exercises in Spanish, two
translations into Spanish, and two translations into English. The breakdown
for coursework marks is 3% for each component.Assessment 2016-17: Module
Description:This is a second-year Spanish
language module consolidating your proficiency at level B2 and exploring level
C1 of the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR). In the
Grammar and Communicative Skills classes you will expand your vocabulary and learn to use
increasingly more sophisticated language in a variety of contexts and registers,
as well as idioms, expressions and colloquialisms.
Different varieties of Spanish will be explored. The Translation classes will
help you enhance your translation competences already acquired in the previous
year in order to tackle a wider variety of texts in both language directions. You
will improve your knowledge of the Hispanic culture(s) across the globe,
especially in the Additional Contents and Skills classes, which will prepare
you for the Year Abroad. To learn more about the Year Abroad, which students
spend in one out of a wide range of Spanish-speaking countries, follow this linkSet
Textbooks (compulsory)*: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150  Term/s: Term 2 Tutor: Dr
Gareth WoodTeaching structure: La
Regenta is a substantial novel, 900 pages in length in most 
editions. This module will therefore spend the first half of the term 
reading the novel in
stages and looking in detail at how the action develops. In the second 
half of
term, we will move on to discuss the novel in its social and cultural 
context,
engaging in close reading and examining the critical discourses that 
have grown
up around the novel. Background lectures will provide the necessary 
contextual
detail and seminars will allow for class discussion and the sharing of 
ideas.Assessment: One
3000-word coursework essay (40%) and a two-hour desk exam (60%).Module Description: In
this module we shall be reading and analysing the novel La Regenta
(1884-85) by Leopoldo Alas. Writing under the penname ‘Clarín’, Alas was the
most famous literary critic in Spain at the time he published La Regenta.
He had gained a reputation as a scathing cultural commentator but La Regenta
surprised many of his contemporaries for the sensitivity with which it depicted
a troubled young woman’s search for happiness and a stable identity in a
provincial Spanish city. Her name is Ana Ozores, a woman who endures a troubled
childhood as the poor relation of an aristocratic family which has fallen on
hard times. Still a young adult, she finds herself married to Don Víctor Quintanar,
an aged and impotent former judge, but increasingly torn between sexual desire
for Don Álvaro Mesía, the local lothario, and a yearning to explore her
spiritual life guided by her confessor, Fermín de Pas. It is her struggle with
the competing claims of duty, lust, and spirituality that forms the central
thread of the novel. Because
he was reading and reviewing much of the new fiction published in Spain and
abroad, Alas was well placed to respond to the latest developments in the
European novel. La Regenta can therefore be considered as a novel written
in response to the Naturalist techniques Émile Zola was pursuing at this time.
However, it is regarded today as both one of the best psychological portraits
of a female protagonist in nineteenth-century fiction and one of the most
biting social satires.Please note that this Term 2
module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination. 

 It would be helpful if you could get hold of a
copy of this edition for use in class.
A detailed bibliography of secondary sources will be provided 
via moodle and in class.
    Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(SPAN2109A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The module takes place at the same time as SPAN2109.)Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Intermediate Level (level 5)  Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term/s: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Maria Chiara D'ArgenioAssessment: SPAN2109: one essay (40%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (60%). In the exam,
students must answer questions on texts not studied for the coursework essay.
SPAN2109A:1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module Description: This module will introduce you to a range of work by
a number of women writers from the Southern Cone and the Andean region. The
module will begin with a consideration of the principal issues at stake in
approaching the topic of women’s writing (e.g. can writing be gendered? Is
there such as thing as a women’s language?), in the course of which you will be
equipped with the relevant vocabulary and conceptual framework necessary for
this enterprise. During the rest of the module you will study a range of works
in different genres including novel, short story, essay and poetry. Issues to
be considered throughout the module in relation to the texts studied will
include: questions of language, style and form; thematic concerns such as
identity, family, nationhood, modernity and ‘race’; and the writers’ and works’
relationship to broader historical contexts of literary production.Preparatory reading and set texts:General background readingPlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Intermediate Level (level 5)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term/s: Term 2Tutor: Dr Claire Lindsay.Assessment: one essay (40%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (60%).Module Description: This course will introduce you to a range of work by a number of
women writers from Mexico and the Hispanic Caribbean region.
The course will begin with a consideration of the principal issues at
stake in approaching the topic of women’s writing (e.g. can writing be
gendered? Is there such as thing as a women’s language?), in the course
of which you will be equipped with the relevant vocabulary and
conceptual framework necessary for this endeavour. During the rest of
the course you will study a range of work in different genres, typically including the novel, essay and short story. Issues
to be considered throughout the course in relation to the texts studied
will include: questions of language, style and form; thematic and social concerns
such as identity, family, nationhood and ‘race’; and the writers’ and
works’ relationship to the literary canon and to broader historical
contexts of literary production.Please note that this Term 2
module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination. Preparatory reading and set texts: books you will need to buy/or have your own copy of include the following. The above are recommended editions but others may be available and acceptable - please check with the course convenor.  Background readingPlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Intermediate Level (level 5)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term/s: Term 2Tutor: Dr Deborah MartinAssessment: one essay (50%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (50%).Module Description:This module will introduce students to a broad range of periods and
styles in Latin American cinema, and to concepts in film theory. It will
explore thematic questions of nationhood, politics, gender and sexuality, as
well as questions specific to cinematic and visual representation.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: Films Initial Secondary
BibliographyPlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Intermediate Level (level 5)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Tyler Fisher Assessment: 3000 word coursework essay (40%), unseen two-hour written examination (60%). Module Description: This module introduces
students to a range of literature written by and about the Spanish Inquisition
in Spain and the Spanish colonies. The module considers ‘literature’ in the
broadest sense, in an historicist approach (ranging from the Inquisitors’
regulatory memoranda to conventional stage plays). Beginning with the founding
documents that set the Inquisition in motion, and ending with the polemical
pamphlets that argued for and against its abolition, we read these texts in
their social and historical contexts, as literature that shaped and was shaped
by the institution. While not exonerating or in any way excusing the
Inquisition’s abuses, the module challenges facile, reductive assumptions about
its nature and effects. Proceeding chronologically, we reconsider the
Inquisition as a continuously evolving socio-political phenomenon, within
which, and in spite of which, artful textual production took place across
nearly 350 years of Spanish history.The
course tutor convenes and facilitates lectures and seminars. All course
information will be made available via Moodle, as well as many of the primary
texts for lectures and seminars. You may start reading for this module before
classes begin. Key readings are marked with an asterisk in the list of texts. This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(SPAN2400A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The module takes place at the same time as SPAN2400.)Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Intermediate Level (level 5)  Total Learning Hours: 150  Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Adrian PearceAssessment: SPAN2400: Two 2,000-word essays (each weighted at 50%).
SPAN2400A:1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module Description:This module covers the history of Latin America during three of the five
centuries that have elapsed since the Iberian conquests, a period that shaped
the region in fundamental ways and endowed it with enduring characteristics. It
thus addresses questions such as: why do Mexico or Peru have large indigenous populations
today, while Cuba or Argentina do not? Why do so many people of African descent
live in Cuba or Brazil, but so few in Guatemala or Uruguay? Or why are there
eighteen Spanish-spealing republics, but just one (vast) Portuguese-speaking
one? The course covers political, social, economic, and cultural aspects, and
devotes attention to both the Spanish and Portuguese colonies, while also
following closely the history of Spain and Portugal themselves during this
period.Early sessions discuss the Spanish conquest, for which historical debate
is almost as hard-fought as were the wars for Mexico and Peru between
conquistadors, Aztecs, and Incas; the collapse over the following century of
native populations throughout the Americas, and its lasting implications; the
so-called spiritual conquest and the distinctive religious tradition to which
it gave rise, based on the melding of traditions or religious syncretism;
gender relations and attitudes to sexuality, with a focus on women; and forced
labour systems, with emphasis on African slavery as it developed in the New
World context.After reading week, we begin with a session on the colonial economy,
based above all on silver mining at places such as Potosí in Bolivia or
Zacatecas in Mexico, and the fleets of galleons that united Iberia with the
colonies across the Atlantic. We then devote two classes to relations between
Spain and Portugal and the Americas: the first to the place of the colonies
within the Iberian global empires, and to shifting relations between colonies
and metropolises; and the second to the imperial policies and strategies
developed in Madrid and Lisbon in response. The final two sessions look at
native resistance to colonial rule during the eighteenth century, above all in
the Andes, and finally the complex processes that led to Independence after
1800.Indicative
Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Intermediate Level (level 5)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Adrian PearceAssessment: Two 2,000-word essaysModule Description:This module concerns the extraordinary history of Spain in the twentieth
century. Over the past hundred years, the country has fought a brutal civil war,
and experienced among the most stable and enduring of European dictatorships;
toyed with republicanism, before re-establishing itself as a monarchy; and undergone
a democratic transition regarded as a model around the world, to then
experience several decades of the “Spanish miracle”, of rapid economic growth
and growing soft power. Most recently, the country has seen the political and
economic model established during the transition come under strain, through
unresolved tensions over fundamental questions of governance and national
identity. All of this, while undergoing social change of unprecedented rapidity,
that has given the country much of its distinctive feel in recent times.We begin by providing the necessary context, with a session devoted to
Spain´s turbulent nineteenth century. Successive classes then look at the
period to the 1930s, marked by colonial wars in Africa and the strange dictatorship
of Miguel Primo de Rivera; the Second Republic from 1931 to 1936, as a period
of growing social and political tension and violence; and the catastrophe of
the Civil War itself, which became an archetype of the horrors of internal
strife and a mirror of broader European trends during W. H. Auden´s “low,
dishonest decade”. The final class before reading week focuses upon the
dictatorship of Francisco Franco that followed, and its political, social, and
economic consequences across several decades until Franco´s death in 1975.Later sessions begin with a discussion of Spain´s remarkable transition
to democracy in the late 1970s and early 1980s, long considered perhaps the
most successful process of its kind. We then discuss the period from the 1980s
to the 2000s, of integration with Europe, economic boom, and cultural
florescence, that seemed to crown a remarkable period of national reinvention
and success. A further class discusses the specific case of Catalonia, as a window
on to regional nationalisms in contemporary Spain and a key test for the current
democratic settlement. Finally, the last two classes look, first, at social
change in Spain since the 1970s, from the movida
madrileña to mass immigration, and secondly, at Spanish international
relations across the period since the Second World War.Indicative
Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Intermediate Level (level 5)
 Total Learning Hours: 150  Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Alexander SamsonTeaching structure: Assessment: one 3000 word essay (40%); one unseen two-hour written examination (40%); one group project (20%).Module Description:The module will trace the development of commercial theatre in early 
modern Spain from its medieval origins in church performances and Corpus
 Christi celebrations, to its heyday in the 17th century. The theatre 
was the first truly popular cultural form of the modern world and 
attracted its audiences from all levels of society. Our discussions will
 focus around a number of themes including: power, anti-theatricalism, 
representations of kingship, honour, gender and cross-dressing, race, 
the New World, sexuality, the Don Juan myth and sumptuary law.Please note that this Term 2
module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:The editions listed here are merely recommendations. 
Cátedra or Castalia editions of any of the plays are fine. Just make 
sure your edition has line numbers. There are also an enormous number of
 comedias freely available online through either the Comedia website or the Association for Hispanic Classical Theatre.  •.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				DUTC4001 - Dutch Language 3DUTC4201 – Making Modern Dutch LiteratureDUTC4205 - Contemporary
Culture and History of the Low CountriesDUTC4502A - Advanced
Translation (from Dutch into English)DUTC4901 - Project in Dutch  FREN4001 - Use of French FREN4002 - French Oral FREN4003 - French Essay FREN4004 - Advanced Translation FREN4005 - Translation I FREN4006 - Translation II FREN4104 - Writing the Self in Post-War France: Aspects of Life-Writing FREN4105 - Dominating Texts: Literary Power Relations in 20th Century Writing FREN4107 - Jean-Paul Sartre: Novels and Other Writings FREN4115 - Legendary Histories FREN4118 - Oriental Encounters  FREN4119 - Realism: Looking Awry in Nineteenth-Century France FREN4209 - Cultures of AIDS in France: History, Policy and Representation  FREN4212 - The Swiss New Wave FREN4214 - Reading Tintin  FREN4217 - Fiction and the Archives FREN4218 - The Front National and Far Right Politics in France FREN4219 - Discourses of Equality FREN4311 - Topics in Modern French HistoryGERM4001 - Modern German LanguageGERM4001A - Modern German Language (Term1)GERM4001B - Modern German Language (Term2)GERM4002 - Discussion and
Essay in German GERM4103 - Wolfram von Eschenbach's 'Parzival' GERM4125 - Austrian LiteratureGERM4126 - Recording Revolt: 1967 in Germany and afterGERM4127 - German Fiction and German HistoryGERM4129 - Language, Power
and Ideology GERM4131 - Modern German ArtGERM4133 - Reading Modern
Novels GERM4141 - German Literature
and Psychology GERM4144 - Black GermanyGERM4145 - SurveillanceGERM4146 - EmpathyITAL4040 - Final Year Italian LanguageITAL4102 - Nation, Culture
and SocietyITAL4127 - Identity and Performance in Renaissance Italy ITAL4909 – The Contemporary Italian NovelITAL4914 – Memory and History in Twentieth Century ItalyITAL4926 - Marriage and Divorce Italian Style (1861-1975)ITAL6001/6002/6004 - English Academic Writing and Translation Skills (for Italian Affiliates only)SCAN4001 - Advanced DanishSCAN4002 - Advanced SwedishSCAN4003 - Advanced NorwegianSCAN4006 - Advanced Project Work in Danish, Norwegian or SwedishSCAN4007 - Translation from
the Scandinavian LanguagesSCAN4201 - Dissertation in
Scandinavian StudiesSCAN4202 - Crime and Small
Communities in Nordic LiteratureSCAN4401 - Advanced Old NorseSCAN4402 - The Vikings in EuropeSCAN7006 - Nordic Landscapes in text, image and soundSCAN7203 - Extended Essay in
Scandinavian StudiesSCAN7214 - Vikings and
Valkyries in Contemporary CultureSCAN7310 - Nordic Politics
and Society, 1990s and After SCAN7405 - Viking-Age Scandinavia SCAN7540 - Nordic CinemaSPAN4001 - Spanish Language
IIISPAN4112 - Latin American Vanguard
MovementsSPAN4115 - The Literary World of J.L. BorgesSPAN4117 - The Works of Cervantes Part ISPAN4304 - Spanish Film from the 1990s: New Ways of Seeing(ii)SPAN4307 - Cultural Dilemmas IISPAN4308 - The City in Latin American CultureSPAN4400 - Topics in Spanish and latin American HistorySPAN4408 - The Battle for Memory
in the Contemporary Spanish Novel: Part I, The Transition to DemocracySPAN4411 - Childhood in Latin American CinemaSPAN4414 - The Andean World of J.M. ArguedasSPAN4415 - Reading and Writing Spanish Microfiction





 



These modules are compulsory for those on the 'with Portuguese' diets, 
and then available to single honours students (subject to availability).PORT4010 - Advanced PortuguesePORT4420 - Portugal and its Empire in the 20th Century: Trajectories and MemoriesPORT4421 - Short Fiction and the Making of Modern Brazil   These modules are not available to joint honours students. HIST6410 - History of Latin America c.1830-c.1930  Please note - this 1.0cu module is subject to availability (please be aware the History
department may not be in a position to approve/reject requests until the Friday
before the week teaching commences) and approval from the SELCS UG Tutor.  
Guidance on registering for History modules.LCUL4001 – Dissertation in Language and
CultureThe Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 1 Tutor: Professor Andrew LeakAssessment: One 3-hour desk exam (weighting 100%).Module Description: This module focuses on what is sometimes called the ‘early Sartre’: the
 period from the publication of Sartre’s first novel to the end of World
 War Two – the moment at which ‘existentialism’ took off as the dominant
 intellectual vogue of the post-war period. The module includes two 
novels, a book of short stories, a play
 and a text written to ‘explain’ existentialism to the general public. 
Students following the module will, by the end of it, be thoroughly 
conversant with one of the most significant intellectual movements of 
the twentieth century, and with its manifestations in a range of 
literary genres and forms.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2 Tutor: To be confirmed Assessment: 1 assessed essay (50%) and a two-hour desk examination (50%) Module Description:This module will look at a key period, event or theme in modern French history (1789
onwards) and will also develop students’ understanding of historical
methodologies to an advanced level. Students will study key historical
developments of the Francophone world with a view to understanding the social,
political and cultural landscape of modern France. They will also develop tools
for historical analysis and research-based learning. By the end of the module, they will have a detailed
understanding of the principles of historical method, particularly source
interpretation and the presentation of an informed argument, and will have
developed these skills to a high standard in the assessed work. Students are
not expected to have studied history before to be eligible to take this module. More details regarding bibliography and course content will be made available during Term 1. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0
course units / 15 ECTS PG Value: 30 UCL credits / 30 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 300Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2
 
 Tutor: Linda van AbelTeaching Structure:This module is available
 to both Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten 
two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in 
which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: one
unseen three-hour written examination (40%); one oral assessment (15%); and
written coursework/problem papers (45%).PG Assessment: one
unseen three-hour written examination (50%); one oral assessment (25%); and
written coursework/problem papers (25%).Module Description:The module aims for students
to become critical intercultural users of Dutch in both spoken and written
form. Students are prepared for the complexity of communication in a fast
changing global and multicultural world. The course provides practice in
language used in work and social situations by emphasising the contextual
demands of audience, aim and genre in a wide range of communicative situations.
Work in class and homework tasks concentrate on developing awareness of
stylistics especially in relation to the contexts of situation and culture. In addition, this module
encourages students to develop their own ‘voices’ and see to what degree this
could be adopted or altered depending on the needs of the context of the
communicative task. Grammar and vocabulary work
are an integral part of all language tasks. Grammar points are discussed in
class where and when needed, but students will also be expected to self-correct
and apply their grammatical knowledge in revising their drafts.  Home work
tasks are an important part of the course, as they help to develop the
necessary skills. These tasks are also assessed in a Language PortfolioAttention is paid to
creativity, as well as to issues affecting the world of work and business.
Tasks range from writing creatively in several genres, e.g.  travel
reports/blogs/memoir and (semi)-professional (e.g. journalistic articles,
presenting coherent  and convincing oral and written arguments, writing
formal letters and e-mails, debating and so on. Students will also design,
prepare and teach a listening class to their fellow students. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:TBC Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSPG Value: 30 UCL credits / 15 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 2 
 
 Tutor: Hans DemeyerTeaching Structure:This module is available
 to both Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten 
two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in 
which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: two 3000 word essays, weighted equally.PG Assessment: two 3000 word essays, weighted equally.Module Description:This module provides students with the opportunity to study writers 
whose work has had a major impact on the modern literary canon. The module looks at the institution of Dutch literature from the 
mid-nineteenth century until today. There will be a number of case 
studies of individual authors taken from different periods and 
representing literature from the Netherlands and Flanders. Currently 
these authors are Carry van Bruggen, Hugo Claus and Cees Nooteboom.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:The Literary FieldCarry van BruggenHugo ClausPlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSPG Value: 30 UCL credits / 15 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)
Term: Term 2 Tutor:  Ulrich TiedauTeaching Structure:This module is available to both Final 
Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: the best three out of four 1500 word essays (100%)PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%)Module Description:In the period since the Second
World War there have been many changes in the societies and cultures of the Low
Countries. This module looks at four important areas of change from a
historical perspective and will deal with the history and culture of Women,
Immigrants, Space, and Memory in the Low Countries, from the 19th
century onwards. The module will look at how current concerns can be traced
back in Dutch society and provide students with a deeper knowledge of Dutch
culture and society as well as important theories related to the key topics.
This module builds on the first and second year core modules DUTC1301- Communities and
Identities in the Low Countries and DUTC2301- Investigating Cultures and offers an opportunity to
further develop cultural analysis concepts, skills and techniques while
exploring selected topics of contemporary Dutch and Belgian history and
culture.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:There is no set textbook for this module. Readings and handouts will be provided in class and on Moodle.
 However, you may find the following textbook, a standard history of the
 Low Countries, useful for background information (copies of which are 
held in the College library):Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSPG Value: 30 UCL credits / 15 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (UG)Term: Term 1 Tutor: Christine SasTeaching structure: A one-term module taught in weekly two-hour classes which consist of a translation workshop and reflection on translation. Final-year undergraduate students study alongside MA students who are following the graduate version of this course.MA students have four 
additional tutorial hours in which to extend and deepen their 
exploration of the subject.UG Assessment:  100% coursework, normally consisting of an annotated translation and an essay or commentary.PG Assessment: One 4,000-word essay (50%) and one 1,000 translation (50%). Module Description:An advanced translation module combining reflection on the translation process with regular exercises in translating from Dutch into English covering a variety of text types. Students learn to develop a translation strategy, analyse texts for translation and translated literary texts, and are encouraged to develop their own approach to translation. Time is also devoted to practical skills such as editing and proofreading, accessing a range of printed and electronic lexicographical and bibliographical resources.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Links to online resources will be provided in the Moodle site for this module.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.  The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSPG Value: 30 UCL credits / 15 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 1 
 
 Tutor: Christine SasTeaching Structure:This module is available
 to both Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten 
two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in 
which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: one 4,000 word Essay - 100%PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay - 100%Module Description:A project written in Dutch on an approved topic in an area of Dutchliterature, linguistics, modern history, society or culture. The module consists of three elements:If possible, depending on student interests, students work on shared projects. The projects cover specific aspects of the modern Low Countries. They involve collaborative research and coordination of activities as part of project management. The project report is a substantial composition in Dutch offering an in-depth exploration of a particular topic.This module offers final year or affiliate students the opportunity to study a topic in depth, that is not currently covered by other modules in the Department of Dutch.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Jann Matlock Assessment: two assessed 3,000 word essays (50% each)Module Description:  “There is
a very dangerous thing in literature,” wrote one of Balzac’s critics in 1847,
“and that is the excess of truth.” Like many critics of the mid-nineteenth
century, this one worried that novelists were unveiling things one might simply
not want to see. What he called the “incessant, merciless observation”
of the “physiological” novelists came increasingly to be labelled by other
critics as a “realist” vision that endangered literary and social values. Twentieth
century critics--among them Lukács, Auerbach, Barthes, and Jameson--have given
us retooled notions of what served, in the nineteenth century, as a label of
denigration. We take for granted today that the nineteenth century novel
tradition includes something we might call “realist” and that the visual
avant-garde of the mid-nineteenth century might best be grouped under that
label.  This
module sets out to re-examine those premises, in particular, by looking at the
material conditions for the definition of “realism” in the nineteenth century.
Through readings of contemporary press criticism of the novel and painting, we
will try to reposition the concept of realism. Through discussions of
nineteenth-century theories of vision we will elaborate a different framework
for thinking about the realist gaze. Student presentations will develop new
ways of thinking about nineteenth-century observation and the visual and
literary realms it engaged. Topics to
be considered: Realism as a critical concept; “realism” in Stendhal and
Delacroix and the tragedies of history; Balzac and vision; the social novel;
women “realists”?; the reception of Courbet and Manet; censorship and the
realist novel; naturalism, the morgue, and the ends of realism; and
photography’s real. Novels by Stendhal, Balzac, Sue, Flaubert, and Zola.
Painting, photography, 19th-century criticism, and contemporary theoretical
texts also to be considered.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Full yearConvenor: Ms Marie FournierTutor: Various Assessment: one twenty-five minute oral examination (100%). Satisfactory 
completion of the coursework is normally a prerequisite for examination 
entry. In the examination, which reflects the module content, students will be 
required to give a summary of a text in French (which they will receive a
 few days before the examination) and answer questions showing an 
analytical response to this text. They are also required to give a 
presentation on and discuss a topic of their own choice (the topic must 
not overlap with material on which students have been or will be 
examined in other parts of their module).Module Description:This final-year core module aims to encourage fluency in responsive and discursive forms.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 1 and Term 2Tutor: Professor Andy LeakAssessment: one unseen three-hour written exam (100%). Satisfactory completion of the coursework is normally a prerequisite for examination entry.Available to: Compulsory for single-subject students. This module is also available to francophone Modern Language, Modern Language Plus and ESPS students who wish to take this instead of FREN4002 - French Oral (see note for FREN4002- French Oral). The module is not available to combined-subject students.Module Description:This final-year module is compulsory for single-subject students and recommended for Erasmus students.  This module is concerned with the translation from French into English of literary texts, both in poetry and in prose. The aim is to provide students with the techniques required for this challenging form of translation and to give them the opportunity, on a weekly basis, to apply those techniques to a range of literary texts. To this end, students will make translations of prose passages and of short lyric and prose poems; they will also write extended ‘translation commentaries’ that focus on those aspects that were most problematic and/or interesting for the translator. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Thibaut RaboinAvailable to: The module is designed primarily for SELCS affiliate students but other students, including other affiliates from ART or other faculties, may be allowed on the course subject to availability of places and approval from the students' home departments. The areas covered will not overlap with those of FREN4006.Assessment: Coursework - 3 translation assignments (30%, 30%, 40%) Module Description:The module involves the translation of non-literary text from French into English. Broad areas that will be covered:- Journalistic (e.g. features, reportage (incl. headlines), faits divers, small-ads, horoscopes, sports reporting etc.)- Technical ( ‘New Scientist’ type popular science, manuals and various ‘modes d’emploi’, catalogues and specifications)- Consumer-oriented (this overlaps with all of the above: e.g. promotion masquerading as travel-writing, the performance specs of cars, electrical goods, advertisements of all kinds etc. etc.)Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Thibaut RaboinAvailable to: The module is designed primarily for SELCS affiliate students but other students, including  other affiliates from ART or other faculties, may be allowed on the module subject to availability of places and approval from the students' home departments. The areas covered will not overlap
 with those of FREN4005.Assessment: Coursework - 3 translation assignments (30%, 30%, 40%) Module Description: The module involves the translation of non-literary text from French into English. Broad areas that will be covered:- Academic Writing (articles, monographs, abstracts, ‘pitches to publishers’, research projects outlines)- Political Discourse (posters, banners, speeches etc.)- Cultural Journalism (book and film reviews etc.)Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 credits Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG) Term: Term 2 Tutor: James AgarTeaching Structure:This module is available to both
 Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (100%)PG Assessment: coursework (100 %) Module Description:This module will address a range of aesthetic, political or
theoretical issues which arise from the practice of modern ‘life-writing’.
Attention will be given to the particular socio-historical contexts of textual
production in order to ascertain what differences and similarities there might
be between the practice of ‘writing the self’ in and between the set texts. We
will also consider the implications of the practice of reading ‘life-writing’:
does this mode of writing invite and/or impose an unwritten contract on the
reader?; how might reading soi-disant ‘literary’ texts be modified by
theoretical issues/texts (and vice versa)?; what issues of authenticity,
believability and trust are aroused through reading ‘life-writing’?; can
‘life-writing’ be categorised as a specific genre?; what are the formal and
thematic differences between autobiography, memoir or diary, fiction and autofiction? We will also address
differences which might be reflected in ‘life-writing’ through, for example,
gender, sexuality and class and will discuss the relations between life, death
and art, writing and identity, memory and the conscious and unconscious self.
In addition to the set literary texts, there will be substantial reading
required of additional non-literary texts (provided on moodle). Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 credits Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (UG) Term: Term 2Tutor: Professor Mairéad HanrahanTeaching Structure:This module is available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (100%).PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%)Module Description:This module will focus in depth on the first volume of the novel which perhaps morethan any other work dominated French literature in the twentieth century, Proust’s Ala recherche du temps perdu, before studying texts by a number of other importantwriters who wrote in Proust’s wake. Domination inevitably implies a power struggle;at the heart of the questions the module will explore is the relationship betweenliterature and power. By means of close textual analysis, we shall examine how theprescribed texts all thematise domination in some form, notably with regard to socialand sexual relations. Sometimes they universalise it, suggesting that intersubjectiverelations are necessarily hierarchical; sometimes they explore the possibility ofsubverting it, beckoning towards a mode of relation that need not involve thesubmission of one element to another, positing the existence of a non-subordinatingdominance, a dominance that does not dominate. The texts also raise questions ofintertextual
 domination: what makes for a specifically literary power? is beauty a 
form of power? does a very powerful text overshadow others, or on the 
contrary call them into being in response to its appeal? Finally, the 
seminars will discuss the power relationship between reader and text: is
 a powerful text precisely one that can never be mastered? And, if 
reading is not an exercise in domination, what is it?Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 credits Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG) Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Jane GilbertTeaching Structure:This course is available to both
 Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG assessment: one 3,000-word essay (50%) and one unseen 90-minute written examination (50%).PG assessment: one 6,000-word essay (100%)Module Description:According to H. E. Bates’s famous dictum, ‘The past is
 another country – they do things differently there’. In this module, we
 shall look at how our medieval past presented its past, and 
particularly at the ways in which – like us, but differently from us – 
medieval people interwove history with legend. We shall read works in 
which the inhabitants of the past appear almost superhuman – and are 
sometimes literally inhuman – in their greatness and terror. ‘We’ the 
readers may consider ourselves heirs to this greatness, or well rid of 
this terror, or both. Moreover, all the texts that we shall study have 
been extremely significant in the construction of European identities 
both national and international. We shall investigate some of the uses 
made of these texts by medieval writers, readers and patrons, looking at
 their subversive potential as well as their propaganda value. In each 
case, legend inserts an uncanny quality into the histories that 
contemporaries construct around themselves. Robert
 de Boron’s Merlin is a short prose romance, the centre of a trilogy 
tracing the story of the Holy Grail and of Arthur’s dominion, thus 
entwining the history of Britain with the cosmic Christian story. At its
 heart is the half-demon Merlin, a figure from Celtic myth with a 
mysterious ability to shapeshift and to know all events past, present 
and future. Merlin and the Grail rapidly went on to become central yet 
troubling figures within European historiography, and retain some of 
that status even today. Although modern Europe may
 consider its birthplace to be Ancient Greece, medieval people thought 
that Europeans represented a Trojan diaspora. Every country had its own 
descent myth, inspired ultimately by Virgil’s Aeneid, and considered its
 chief city a ‘New Troy’. We shall read extracts from the mighty verse 
romance known as the Roman de Troie. The Troie presents the public and 
private upheaval of the Trojan War, including the fall of Troy and 
foundation of Western Europe on the one hand, and the many private 
tragedies on the other: Paris and Helen, Troilus and Criseyde, Achilles 
and Polyxena, and so on. A prequel to Virgil, the Troie details what for
 medieval people was the mother, pattern and explanation of all 
subsequent European and world wars. Finally, the 
verse Roman d’Alexandre follows the fortunes of the man who conquered 
the whole of the known world – including many parts known only by 
hearsay and, frankly, unlikely. In this romance Alexander also flies, 
takes a trip in a submarine, and visits ‘the marvels of the Orient’. 
Alexander was the exemplary medieval king: brave, generous and learned. 
He was an inspiration to would-be conquerors. Equally importantly, his 
biography presented medieval readers with natural and artificial 
marvels, offering them powerful experiences of exoticism and alterity 
that could not be subdued. The Alexandre presents the history of 
humanity and of the empire of the world as unChristian and alien. We 
shall read most of the Alexandre (minus the ‘Fuerre de Gadres’ episode),
 thus bringing it down to manageable length.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Further
 preparatory reading is available on request, however students’ main 
task is to familiarise themselves with the set texts.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2Tutor: To be confirmedTeaching structure: SeminarsAssessment: 1 assessed essay of 3000 words (50%) and a two-hour desk examination (50%).Module Description:This course explores the tradition of the Voyage to
the Orient (17thC-19thC). The study of cultural encounters has emerged in
recent years as a privileged field for re-thinking fundamental questions about
problems of perception, human subjectivity and identity. Starting with French
early-modern explorations of India, we will examine issues of gender, sexuality
and religious beliefs and practices intersected with perceptions of the exotic
East. We will then read extracts from Raynal’s Histoires des Deux Indes; Pierre Loti’s
account of Egypt; and Flaubert’s Voyage
en Orient, thus exploring the means and modes of European
colonisation, while testing the limits of an orientalist discourse. We will end
with a critical reading of the opening chapter of Claude Levi-Strauss’ Tristes Tropiques,
ominously entitled ‘La fin des voyages’. 
Travel writing has been a growing area in recent scholarship. This module will
also offer the opportunity to explore key notions and theories: Orientalism,
cultural relativism and cultural pluralism, historicism and post/colonialism,
while focusing on the experience of the traveller without ruling out or
oversimplifying the process of ‘knowing the other’. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Initial Secondary Bibliography:Ames, Glenn J. and Love, Ronald S., Eds., Distant Lands and Diverse Cultures: The French Experience in Asia, 1600-1700. Westport, Connecticut: Praeger, 2003.Behdad, Ali, Belated Travelers: Orientalism in the Age of Colonial Dissolution. Duke UP, 1994. Clifford, James, Writing Culture: the Poetics and Politics of Ethnography, ed. with G. Marcus. University of California Press, 1986.Elsner, Jaś, and Rubiés, Joan-Pau, Eds., Voyages and visions: towards a cultural history of travel. London: Reaktion Books, 1999.Forsdick, Charles (as much for the introduction and bibliography as anything): in New Approaches to Twentieth-Century Travel Literature in French: Genre, History, Theory. New York: Peter Lang, 2006.                                                                          Claude Lévi-Strauss, ‘La fin des voyages’, in Tristes Tropiques. Presses Pocket. (Digitised and available on Moodle via the Reading List link)Porter, Dennis, Haunted Journeys: Desire and Transgression in European Travel Writing. Princeton University Press, 1991.Said, Edward, Orientalism. Penguin Books, 1991.The Cambridge Companion to Travel Writing, eds Peter Hulme and Tim Youngs (2002; 2006) and Écrire le voyage, G. Tverdota ed. Paris: Presses de la Sorbonne nouvelle, 1994.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 credits Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG) Term: Term 1  Tutor: James AgarTeaching Structure:This module is available to both
 Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG assessment: two assessed 3000 word essays (50% each).PG assessment: two assessed 3500 and 4000 word essays.Module Description:This module will examine the development of representations and debates aroundAIDS
 in France from the early 1980s to the close of the twentieth century. 
The module will take a broadly cultural studies approach and, through 
the analysis of political and sociological texts, will examine the role 
of French medical research in the isolation and naming of the 
virus/disease and the development of French government policy toward the
 disease in terms of prevention campaigns and political rhetoric. We 
shall also study, in depth, a range of ‘literary’ and filmic texts which
 address the issue of AIDS and debates around AIDS. The module will 
address a range of themes related to these interlinking areas: 
government policy versus non-government sponsored AIDS activism in 
France; the setting up and development of self-help organisations; 
issues related to gender and (gay) sexuality; the individual and 
different notions of community; the politics of representing and 
‘reading’ AIDS. Although the focus will be on AIDS in France, comparison
 will be made with other countries and cultures in order to highlight 
some of the ideological and political inflections specific to AIDS in 
modern France.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:‘Literary’ textsFilmic texts (viewings will be arranged)History and policyPlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Roland-François LackAssessment: two assessed 3,000 word essays (50% each).Module Description: This module will provide an introduction to filmmaking in 
French-speaking Switzerland by concentrating on important works by 
Michel Soutter and Alain Tanner from the moment of the Swiss New Wave 
(1966-72), viewed in relation to later work from the ‘70s by these and 
other Swiss filmmakers (Claude Goretta, Patricia Moraz, Yves Yersin and 
Jean-Luc Godard). Alongside considerations of form, we shall focus 
on recurrent thematic preoccupations in these films, including the 
city/country opposition, the idea of Swissness and questions of gender 
representation. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: Primary films: Secondary reading and viewing matter will be recommended at a later date.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 1 Tutor: Marie FournierAssessment: one 3000-word essay (50%) and one two-hour desk examination (50%).Module Description:The module introduces students – with no necessary prior knowledge of the genre – to the study of the bande dessinée
 form, through the close study of six works in the Tintin collection of 
Belgian author Hergé (Georges Prosper Rémi). Readings of Hergé’s texts 
will be undertaken from a variety of critical perspectives: historical, 
post/colonial, narratological. Students will become familiar not only 
with the primary texts but also with relevant secondary materials 
dealing with the graphic quality of the texts and the modes of 
articulation of text and image.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Thibaut Maus de RolleyTeaching structure: SeminarsAssessment: 2 assessed essays (50% each) of 3000 words each.Module Description:We will examine in this module three famous criminal cases from the early modern period, and the series of texts that each of them generated: (i) the ‘affaire Martin Guerre’ (1560), a case of imposture and stolen identity in sixteenth-century southwestern France; (ii) the trial of Louis Gaufridy, a priest burnt at the stake in 1611 for having allegedly caused the demonic possession of two young nuns in Aix-en-Provence; (iii) the brutal assassination of a young and rich aristocrat, the Marquise de Ganges, by her two brothers-in-law (1667). We will read and discuss a wide range of (short) accounts of these three faits divers: manuscript court records, popular pamphlets, collections of histoires tragiques and causes célèbres, and a short novel (by the Marquis de Sade). But we will also look, beyond the early modern period, at 
modern reconstructions of these stories offered by historians and 
filmmakers – eg. the 1982 film Le Retour de Martin Guerre, and Natalie 
Zemon Davis’s historical study of the case (1983).The study of these stories of imposture, witchcraft, and murder in cold blood, will allow us to approach essential aspects of early modern social and legal history, and to explore the many forms taken in the early modern period by a thriving littérature du crime, at the intersection of law and literature. It will also be an opportunity to analyse in depth the processes of 'rewriting' that turn the archival account of a legal case into a well-crafted story, and a historical document into 'literature.'Set Primary Material:I. L'affaire Martin Guerre (Weeks 1-4)II. L'affaire Gaufridy (Weeks 5-7)III. La Marquise de Ganges (Weeks 8-10)A bibliography of secondary literature will be provided at the beginning of the course.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2Tutor: Professor Philippe MarlièreAssessment: 2 assessed essays (50% each) of 3000 words eachModule Description:This final year module offers an in-depth study of the Front National and far right politics in contemporary France. It starts by mapping out the origins and different strands of thought within the French far right from the late 19th century onwards. It aims to identify the core values and ideas of the far right, as well as the extent to which it forms a consistent political ideology. Then, the course concentrates on the Front National (FN), the most successful far right party in contemporary France. It pays attention to the FN’s most underlying political features; its sociological transformation over time, notably from the mid-1980s up to now. Other aspects of the study include: sociology of party membership and electorate, and main policies and ideas. The module eventually addresses more topical issues such as: is the FN still a “far right” party or has it morphed into a more mainstream party of the “national right”, as Marine Le Pen insists on? Are FN policies compatible with the French constitution and republican polity? Is it pertinent to label the FN a “populist” or “national populist” party?This is an option which is suited to students who wish to deepen their knowledge of French politics and engage with French political science literature.Preparatory Reading:Cécile Alduy,
Stéphane Wahnich, Marine Le Pen prise aux mots, Paris, Seuil, 2015.Ariane Chebel
d’Appollonia, Les Frontières du racisme. Identités, ethnicité, citoyenneté,
Paris, Presses de Sciences Po, 2011.Sylvain Crépon,
Enquête au cœur du nouveau Front National, Paris, Nouveau Monde, 2012.Alexandre Dézé,
Le Front national: à la conquête du pouvoir?, Paris, Armand Colin,‎ 2012.Valérie Igounet,
Le Front national de 1972 à nos jours. Le parti, les hommes, les idées, Paris,
Éditions du Seuil, 2014.Nonna Mayer, Ces
Français qui votent Le Pen, Paris, Flammarion, 2002.James Shield, The Extreme Right in France: From Pétain to Le
Pen, London, Routledge, 2007.Zeev Sternell, La
Droite révolutionnaire: les origines françaises du fascisme, Paris, Seuil,
1978.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 credits Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG) Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Kevin InstonTeaching Structure:This module is available to both Final 
Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: 2 assessed essays (50% each) of 3000 words eachPG Assessment: 1 assessed essays of 6000 words Module Description:The question of how we define equality, who counts as equal or whether a society can be completely egalitarian in its organisation preoccupies democratic politics and political theory. Does equality imply totally identical levels of material wealth and chances? Or does it entail the equal right to cultural or social differences? Are freedom and equality compatible? How do individuals considered unequal demand equality without simply inverting hierarchical relations or replicating them by granting others the authority to decide if they count as equal or not? This module will explore these questions through a range of philosophical, anthropological and political writings. We begin with Rousseau’s Discours de l’inégalité which refutes any natural or divine foundation for social inequalities and affirms universal freedom and equality as the most legitimate basis for social organisation. That refutation underlies Abbé Sieyès’s influential revolutionary pamphlet that calls for equal political representation in government for all orders in French society. We shall then explore the anti-colonial writings of the anthropologist Michel Leiris and Simone de Beauvoir’s foundational feminist essay Le Deuxième Sexe. The module closes by looking at Jacques Rancière’s recent and original theory of active equality: equality is not something that is distributed or ensured by social institutions but is always declared and demonstrated by those who are not counted as equal by their communities.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:*Photocopies to be provided by tutor. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 1 and Term 2
Tutor: VariousTeaching Structure:This module is available to both Final 
Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (100%)PG assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (100%)Module Description:This is an enhanced final year / MA language module in
translation from and into German. It enhances understanding of idiom,
style and register, and develops advanced language mediation skills. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1Tutor: Dr Barbara LesterTeaching structure: The module entails translation from and into English,
covering 2 hours per week. 
Assessment: Continuous coursework assessment throughout the term.Available to: Affiliate students.Module Description:This is an enhanced final year module in translation from and into German. The material used  is taken from literary works and
journalistic texts, reflecting different styles of writing, old and modern, and
varying linguistic registers. All material can be accessed via Moodle.Depending on context, background information will be given,
of a political, historical or cultural nature, as deemed necessary and
appropriate. Brief discussion of topics encouraged if wanted by students. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Barbara LesterTeaching structure: the module covers 2 hours per week.
Assessment: Continuous coursework assessment throughout the term.Available to: affiliate students.Module Description:This is an enhanced final year module in translation from and into German. The material used  is taken from literary works and
journalistic texts, reflecting different styles of writing, old and modern, and
varying linguistic registers. All material can be accessed via Moodle.Depending on context, background information will be given,
of a political, historical or cultural nature, as deemed necessary and
appropriate. Brief discussion of topics encouraged if wanted by students.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 1
Tutor: Dr Sebastian CoxonTeaching Structure:This module is available to both Final 
Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay (50%); and one unseen
two-hour examination (50%)PG Assessment: one assessed 6,000 word essay (100%)Available to: Final Year students and MA studentsModule Description: Wolfram von Eschenbach is
acknowledged to be one of the greatest poets of the German Middle Ages, perhaps
the greatest, and as a narrative writer he can stand comparison with Chrétien
de Troyes, Dante and Chaucer. Parzival, an adaptation of Chrétien’s
Arthurian and Grail romance Le Conte du Graal, is a work of astonishing
depth and complexity which is further distinguished by a forceful and
interventionist narrator-figure who engages in lively debate with his subject
matter and above all with his readers (or listeners). The module will focus on the
medieval German text of Parzival in its entirety. We will refer to
Wolfram’s treatment of his French source (of which passages may be read in
English translation) and will set him in his historical context - literary,
political, social and religious. Topics to be covered will include narrative
strategies, codes and techniques; history and fictionality; ideologies of
chivalry and nobility; gender; courtly culture; religious belief.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 1
Tutor: Dr Judith BenistonTeaching structure: This course is available
 to both Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten 
two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in 
which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG assessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay (50%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (50%). PG assessment: one assessed 6 000 word essay (100%) Module Description:In Austria the period
between approximately 1890 and 1938 was not only one of enormous political
upheavals (the collapse of the Habsburg Empire, the founding of the First
Austrian Republic, and its subsequent annexation to Nazi Germany), it was also
a time of intense cultural and intellectual ferment. Focusing on key works of
the Fin de siècle and of the interwar period, this course will explore
some of the distinctive preoccupations of Viennese modernism — sexuality and
the gendered self, aestheticism, and Sprachkrise — as well as examining literary
responses to questions of national identity and cultural tradition. Preparatory reading and
set texts:  Electronic versions of these texts are available. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Code: GERM4126Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
Level: Advanced Level (Level 6)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: term 2
Tutor: Dr Mererid DaviesAssessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay (50%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (50%)Module Description:The
1960s protest movements marked an astonishing moment for West Germany. They
developed a political critique, but above all they are distinctive for their
overwhelming emphasis on culture and the symbolic. In particular, reading and
writing had unique prestige for protesters, who produced an extraordinary writing
culture which was by turns polemical, witty, provocative, reflective and
offensive. This module explores some key literary and filmic works of the
period, in order to offer a detailed account of this culture of revolt and its
aftermath.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Film viewings will be arranged in the
department for the films to be studied. In most cases they are also available
for you to borrow via UCL Main Library if you’d like to view them
independently. Where it is noted that copies or extracts from texts will be
provided, these will be made available via Moodle.  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 2
Tutor: Dr Sebastian CoxonTeaching structure: One two-hour
seminar per week in Term II. 
Assessment: 1 assessed essay (50%); 1
two-hour exam (50%) Available to: Final Year students Module Description:
Grimmelshausen effectively launched the picaresque novel
as a literary form in Germany in the seventeenth century. His main works, which
were written as a cycle (the so-called ‘Simplicianische Schriften’), are
masterpieces of satire and gross comedy. Simplicissimus
(1668-1669) and Courasche (1670) are
fictional autobiographies chiefly set in the Germany of the Thirty Years War.
In telling their often bawdy and obscene stories the first-person narrators of
these works explore the impact of war and social conditioning on their lives
and the lives of their contemporaries. Springinsfeld
(1670) tells the story of a character who features both in Simplicissimus and in Courasche,
and Simplicissimus and Courasche feature in turn as characters in
Springinsfeld’s narrative, so that the two later novels expand and comment on Simplicissimus to produce one of the
most fascinating and dynamic fictional worlds that German literature has to
offer. The Simplician cycle is concluded with two further novels, Parts I and
II of Das wunderbarliche Vogelnest
(1672; 1675), which constitute further experiments in narrative voice and
literary comedy.In addition to examining the problem of the relationship
between fiction and history, the module will aim to introduce students to a
variety of approaches towards the analysis of pre-modern narrative. The
emphasis throughout will be on close reading of the text(s) and students will
be expected to develop a good knowledge of the Simplician cycle as a whole.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of 
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the 
academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				PG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS UG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 1
Tutor: Dr Geraldine HoranTeaching Structure:This course is available
 to both Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten 
two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in 
which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG assessment: one assessed 2,500 
word essay (50%) and one take-home paper (50%). In addition to this, 
students will be required to give a short presentation on one aspect of 
the module topics. PG assessment: one assessed 3 000 word essay (50%) and one take-home paper (50%). In 
addition to this, students will be required to give a short presentation
 on one aspect of the module topics. Module Description:The module will examine the complex relationship 
between language, power, and ideology in Germany society, and will trace
 how language has been employed in the twentieth and twenty-first 
centuries by individuals, groups, organisations, and institutions to 
exercise power and to communicate a particular ideology or world-view. 
During this module, we will address a variety of linguistic topics and 
issues, including political discourse, defining 'propaganda' or 
'ideological language'; the misuse and abuse of language; the nature of 
linguistic groups; language planning. The analysis of primary texts will
 draw upon aspects of linguistic theory, including sociolinguistics, 
pragmatics, discourse analysis, and semantics.The module will focus in particular on the following topics:Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:General introductionLanguage and fascismLanguage and communismGroup discourses, identity and powerLanguage of media/advertisingPlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) / 300 (PG)Term: term 2
Tutor: Professor Mark HewitsonTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. UG Assessment: two 2,500 word essays (50% each)PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%)  Module Description:This module investigates painters' reactions to 
modernity during the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. 
Through the study of some of the most remarkable works of the modern 
avant-garde, and critical reviews of such works, students are encouraged
 to re-evaluate how the Academy, Symbolists, Expressionists and the 
artists of the Neue Sachlichkeit movement defined and reacted to the 
characteristics of the modern age. The module aims to introduce students
 to the history of art and ideas, and to complement modules in modern 
history, film and literature.Module outline1. Introduction: History of Art and Cultural History.2. Academy, Symbolism, and Secession: History, Myth, and Nation.3. Expressionism (i): Die Brücke.4. Expressionism (ii): Der Blaue Reiter.5. Dada and Neue Sachlichkeit: The Insanity of Reality.[READING WEEK]6. Bauhaus and Abstract Art: Form, Function, and Spirituality.7. The Self: Psychology and Art.8. War and the Art of Violence.9. Women and Men: Constructions of Gender.10. Metropolis: City, Nature, and Society.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Methodology and Theories of Art HistorySurveys of Art and Culture in Germany Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 2
Tutor: Reinier van StratenTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG assessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay (50%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (50%). **PG assessment: one assessed 6,000 word essay (100%).Module Description:This module looks at three major twentieth-century novels in detail. All
 three books explore the problem of interpretation and raise questions 
about how reality can be understood and represented. In each novel the 
narrative technique is a crucial tool for undermining the reader’s 
expectations, both in relation to specific historical events and in 
relation to the process of textual interpretation itself. The books 
challenge our desire for clarity and explanation in an era when the 
category of truth has been profoundly relativized.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please buy and read the following three set texts
before the autumn term begins:  ** Please note that this module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits /0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 2
Tutor: Dr Martin LiebscherTeaching Structure:This module is available
 to both Final Year students and MA students.  All students attend ten 
two-hour seminars. MA students have four additional tutorial hours in 
which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: two assessed 2500 word essays (50% each)PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%)Module Description:This module examines the interaction between
psychology and German literature in the late nineteenth and early twentieth
centuries. We will analyse a selection of literary texts that have either been
inspired by psychological findings or have been the subject of psychological
interpretations. This will not only give an insight in the psychological
theories of literature, but also help to understand the formation of psychology
as a science in the second half of the nineteenth century and the crucial role
literature played for the development of psychoanalysis around 1900. At the
same time, the module will investigate some of the ways in which psychoanalytic
and psychotherapeutic theories influenced the work of major writers such as
Arthur Schnitzler, Stefan Zweig and Hermann Hesse.Preparatory texts: Set texts :MA module in addition:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 postgraduate creditsLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) /300 (PG)Term: Term 2
Tutor: Dr Jeff BowersoxTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars taught in English consisting of lectures,
class discussions, and student presentations. MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. Moodle to be used as a repository
for reading materials as well as for preparatory assignments, and MyPortfolio
to be used as a platform for building a website. Students will also engage in
three webchats with students at the Universities of Michigan and Missouri to
discuss course material and themes.  UG Assessment: One web research project, 5,000 words (100%)PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%)Note: Students taking this module cannot take ELCS4030Module description:This module examines
the development of an African diaspora in Germany from the Renaissance to the
present-day, with emphasis on the dramatic shifts in regimes of the past 200
years. Along with surveying contexts in which Africans and their descendants
came to German-speaking lands, we will consider the diverse ways in which they
have shaped and been shaped by a society that variously tolerated, rejected, or
accepted them on specific terms. By paying due attention to transnational
contexts, the module will complicate ideas of a single black experience as well
as a monolithic and consistent idea of “Germanness.”  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 postgraduate creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 1Tutor: Dr Annie RingTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. Moodle to be used as a repository for reading and viewing materials.Formative assessment: formatively-assessed presentations followed by attendance at at least
one office hour in the term, at which students will receive feedback on their
presentation and on a bullet point essay plan.UG Assessment: One 5,000-word essay (100%)PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%)Module Description:In this module we will explore the problem and the promise of surveillance in German-language culture in the twentieth and twenty-first centuries.* Students will encounter crucial and often opposing theories of the forms surveillance can take, and test the applicability of those theories to the changing representations of surveillance in primary works in German. The theoretical approaches and primary works handled in the module will give a grounding in the contributions that German-language culture has made to discussions of how surveillance forms behaviour, as we consider the narratives and images that have emerged in the light of–and as responses to–surveillance.*MA candidates are welcome to draw on German-language works
published before 1900 in their research essays, subject to tutor’s advice. Preparatory reading
and set texts: Simone Browne, Dark Matters: On the Surveillance of
Blackness (Duke University Press, 2015) Gilles Deleuze, ‘Postscript on the Societies of Control’,
various editions. Franz Kafka, Der Proceß, various editions. Harun Farocki, dir. Bilder der Welt und Inschrift des
Krieges (Germany, 1989) Michel Foucault, Discipline and Punish: The Birth of the
Prison (London: Penguin, 1991) Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck, dir. Das Leben der Anderen
(Germany, 2006) Christian Petzold, dir. Barbara (Germany, 2012) Ilija Trojanow & Juli Zeh, Angriff auf die Freiheit:
Sicherheitswahn, Überwachungsstaat und der Abbau bürgerlicher Rechte (Munich:
Hanser, 2009) Cornelia Vissmann, Akten: Medientechnik und Recht (Frankfurt
a/M: Fischer 2000) Set texts for weekly
seminars – see Moodle.  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 2 
Tutor: Dr Annie RingTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. Moodle to be used as a repository for
reading and viewing materials Formative assessment: formatively-assessed
presentations followed by attendance at at least one office hour in the term,
at which students will receive feedback on their presentation and on a bullet
point essay plan.UG Assessment: One 5,000-word essay (100%).PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%)   Module Description:   In this module we will
critically explore the notion of empathy in works of modern German-language
culture and thought. For Hannah Arendt, isolation is a condition in which
totalitarianism can easily take hold. An emotion that can reduce isolation is
empathy. Yet despite its potential for connection and understanding, empathy is
much harder to inspire than hatred toward the other, as certain key events in
modern German history suggest. Can cultural texts incite empathy, and is it
desirable for them to do so? What are the risks attendant on the empathic draw
of texts and philosophies? Students taking the module will develop the skills
to analyse and evaluate a range of texts, including films, which seek to incite
empathy or a critique of empathy in their audiences.   Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course units / 15 ECTS Level: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 300Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2 Tutors: variousTeaching structure: Students will attend a total of 3 hours per week.Module Description:This is a mandatory module for all students who are studying Italian in any Modern Languages and Modern Languages Plus combination, as well as for Italian BA students. The module presupposes successful completion of ITAL2020 Second Year Italian Language and of the Year Abroad Programme.  The aims of the module are: to develop a high level of knowledge of Italian as a medium of understanding, communication and expression; to develop the understanding of the structure of Italian and of the historical and sociocultural contexts in which it has developed and it is used; and to study Italian as a gateway to other areas and subjects (literature, history, philosophy etc) and possibly further study at postgraduate level. Please note that a thorough knowledge of basic Italian grammar is a prerequisite for this course.Assessment: 1. One unseen 3-hour written examination (75%). The three questions of the written paper are:2. One oral examination (25%). ESPS students who are registered for ITAL4002 Final Year Italian Language for ESPS students (0.5cu) will do a one-hour written exam consisting of an essay (50%) and an oral exam (50%).Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Essay/Oral/GrammarPlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 2
 
 Tutor: Professor John 
DickieTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. UG Assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (100%).PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%)Module Description:The module’s central themes are national identity and
nation-building in Italy
between Unification and the First World War. The first seminars are taken up by
a theoretical and historical discussion of nations and nationalism, and by
preparatory study of the state of Italian society in 1860. The main body of the module comprises topics that may include the following: education and children’s
literature; crime and criminal anthropology; political culture; feminism;
opera; patriotic monuments; Italian cuisine; Futurism; the South; the
Giolittian state. A representative work is studied for each topic, along with a
wide range of historical and theoretical material. Students are therefore
expected to know the set works in detail, to engage with new theoretical
concepts, and to develop a good understanding of the central questions related
to the issue of national identity in Liberal Italy.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Lisa Sampson Teaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. UG Assessment: one written commentary of
2000 words (40%), and an assessed essay of 3000 words (60%) PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%) Module Description:This
module explores perceptions of identity in Renaissance Italy, bringing recent
perspectives to the compelling thesis of Renaissance man’s individuality in
Burkhardt’s foundational The Civilization
of the Renaissance in Italy (1860). The focus is especially on how identity
could be construed, or socially, politically, and culturally constructed, by
individuals or groups, through theatre and the rich culture of the princely
courts. We will examine Castiglione’s Il
cortegiano (1528), which provides a subtle portrait of the court of Urbino
and of the multifarious roles played by the ideal courtier. Theatrical works by
Bibbiena, Ariosto and comici dell’arte will provide a further basis
for exploring the complex dynamics involved in ‘self-fashioning’, from dress
and leisure pursuits to more challenging issues of imitation and dissimulation.
Students will explore the aesthetics and ethics of performance, debates on
nobility, linguistic issues, class and political identity, gender play, and
also attitudes to sociability and humour. 
The study of theatrical texts will allow students opportunities to
engage practically in class with issues of performance.  A theatre visit will be programmed depending
on availability.Set
texts· Baldassarre Castiglione, Il cortegiano (any edition)· Bibbiena (Bernardo Dovizi), La Calandria (1513) (any edition) · Ludovico Ariosto, La Lena (1528) (any edition)· Flaminio Scala, Il teatro delle favole rappresentative [1611], ed. by Ferruccio
Marotti (Milano: Il polifilo, 1976) (selected commedia dell’arte scenarios) [See
The Commedia dell'arte of Flaminio Scala:
a translation and analysis of 30 scenarios, ed. and transl. by Richard
Andrews (Lanham, Md.: Scarecrow Press, 2008)]Preparatory background reading· Cox, Virginia, A Short History of The Italian Renaissance (London: I.B. Tauris,
2016), ch. 4 ‘Identity and the Self’, ch. 5 ‘Renaissance Man’· Martin, John Jeffries, Myths of Renaissance Individualism (Basingstoke: Palgrave
MacMillan, 2004)· Woodhouse, J. R., Baldesar Castiglione.
A Reassessment of the Courtier (Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press,
1978)· Anglo, Sydney, ‘The Courtier: The
Renaissance and Changing Ideals’, in The
Courts of Europe: Politics, Patronage and Royalty,
1400-1800, ed. A. G. Dickens (London, 1977) · Andrews, Richard, Scripts and Scenarios: the performance of comedy in Renaissance Italy
(Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1993)· Farrell, Joseph, and Paolo Puppa, eds, A History of Italian Theatre (Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 2006), Part II ‘The Renaissance’ Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Enrico 
PalandriTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. UG Assessment: One 5,000-word essay (100%)PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%)Module Description: Since the middle of 
the twentieth century the Italian novel has undergone profound transformations. 
Each generation of writers tends to take certain themes as its own and to 
establish stylistic trends: neorealism, experimentalism, new narrativity, ‘I 
cannibali’. Within each generation important alliances are formed with 
publishing houses and newspapers, new literary magazines are founded, the map of 
Italian society is redrawn. These groupings tend to be abandoned once individual 
careers have been established. Each new generation of writers unfailingly 
accused the older one of provincialism, of being too tied to the national 
tradition. Occasionally, however, unexpected alliances appeared between young 
writers and others fifty years older ‘I nuovi narratori’ and Morante, Moravia, 
Bilenchi; ‘I cannibali’ and ‘Gruppo 63’. The module will examine these changes 
in relation both to generational differences and to the individual careers of 
the authors themselves.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Novels from the bulk of the bibliography. However, some texts are 
offered as historical and theoretical support. The following is a small 
selection of the novels referred to in the lectures. Students are welcome to 
propose other texts by the same authors. A longer list of novels and other works 
will be supplied to students taking the module. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1  Tutor: Dr Eleanor ChiariAssessment: two 
assessed 3000 word essays (50% each), one in-class presentation.Module Description:This module aims to 
provide an extensive introduction to themes related to the study of memory, 
memories and history with reference to twentieth-century Italy. Drawing on 
recent discussion in history and anthropology, the module begins with a study of 
methodology before moving on to more specific case studies in various periods of 
Italian history.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Carlotta Ferrara degli UbertiTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. UG Assessment: One 3000 word essay (50%) and one desk examination (50%)PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%) Module Description:The concept, size and functions of the European family have changed
during the XIX and XX century, in relation to the rapid mutations in political,
social and economic structures. But they have also been influenced by the
process of secularization, the evolution of medical science, then the
dissemination of valid methods of contraception. The module will focus on the evolution
of conceptions, representations and practices of marriage in Italy from a
legal, political and cultural perspective. The debate on the possibility of
introducing divorce in the Italian legal system will be followed from the
Unification until the referendum of 1974. Topics will include: representations
of the family, evolution of gender roles, representations of women, feminism,
the influence of Catholicism and Catholic parties, propaganda, the changing
attitude toward sexuality. Primary sources such as legal documents, literary
materials, films, documentaries, illustrations will be properly contextualized
and analyzed.  Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS (ITAL6001 or ITAL6004) 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTS  (ITAL6002)Level: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150 (ITAL6001 or ITAL6004) / 300 (ITAL6002)Tutor: Andrew Campbell (essay writing) and others (translation)Available to: Affiliate students who are native speakers of Italian.Teaching structure: Whole Year (ITAL6002) / Term 1 only (ITAL6004) / Term 2 only (ITAL6001).•  Time: Thursday 15.00-16.00 or 16.00-17.00 (essay writing) and Wednesday 13.00 - 14.00
 or Thursday 13.00 - 14.00 (translation from Italian into English
and vice versa).•  Student contact
hours: 20 one-hour classes (10 translation, 10 essay-writing) in each term. Assessment: No
dictionaries or any reference material are allowed in examinations.•  ITAL6001/6004: one two-hour written paper consisting of the following two
questions: Translation into English and Essay
in English•  ITAL6002: one three-hour written paperStudent workload: Regular
written assignments will be set by the module tutors, to be handed in by the
deadlines specified. Work handed in after the deadlines will not normally be
marked. Submission of at least 70% of this coursework is required for admission
to the examination.Module Description:This module gives
students practice of translation from Italian into English and vice versa, and
of essay writing in English.For the translation
classes, Affiliate students are allocated to the Final Year language groups (ITAL4040) to
work on a range of texts. One half of each term is spent working on translation
from English into Italian, the other half on translation from Italian into
English, with different tutors. Students are encouraged to reflect on and
discuss problems inherent in the practice of translation.The
essay-writing classes focus
on the discussion of topics on which the students will write essays. There will
also be scope for discussion of issues generated by the translation classes. Students
will engage with different registers and styles of English texts (such as
journalistic, formal, popular song, academic and poetry) and different varieties
of English (such as regional dialects, slang, and idiomatic phrases). The
module also includes a small component of revision of English grammar, and an
analysis of the skills required to write a short essay in English, such as how
to marshal and present arguments.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0
course units / 15 ECTS Level: Advanced Level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 300Tutor:  Dr Eleanor ChiariTeaching structure:  The dissertation takes the shape of independent
research under the guidance of a supervisor. It is expected that the student
and supervisor will meet 4 times over the course of the project to discuss its
progress.Assessment: One 10,000 words dissertation (100%).Module Description:The purpose of the dissertation is to provide
students with the opportunity to pursue independent and in-depth research on a
subject of choice. It allows students to specialize in an area according to
individual prospective career paths or intellectual interests. The dissertation
demonstrates a student’s ability to produce a substantial piece of written
work, and enhances the skills required to do this: analysis and synthesis,
clarity of thought, conciseness, organization and time management. The topic of
the dissertation must fall within the discipline range of the BA Language and
Culture. It may relate in general terms to the subject area of a module in the
degree but it must not replicate work already done on a particular
module(including Year-Abroad projects). The topic may be cross-disciplinary
and/or multi-lingual in nature, or link two areas for comparison. The topic is
subject to the approval of the Programme Convener who will also assist the student
in finding an appropriate supervisor in one of the departments linked to the
Programme. A dedicated Moodle site will be available for consultation,
containing guidance and relevant general materials.  The module aims: Intended learning
outcomes:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
30
UCL credits / 1.0 course units / 15 ECTS  Level: Advanced level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 300
 Term/s: Full YearTutor: Dr Joana Rita RamalhoTeaching structure: The class meets 4
hours per week in two 2-hour classes. The teaching is divided into four main
components: Oral, Grammar, Translation into Portuguese and
Translation into English. Other skills, such as listening and
reading comprehension and writing skills, are included in each of the four
components.Assessment: Final Desk Exam with components of Grammar, Translation into
Portuguese and Translation into English (50%); Oral Exam (20%); Coursework (30%). The
coursework consists of two grammar quizzes, two oral presentations,
two writing exercises, two translations into Portuguese and two translations
into English. The breakdown for coursework marks is 3% for each
component.Module Description:This module is designed
for students who have had exposure to Intermediate Portuguese (PORT2010) and,
typically, spent several months in Brazil, Portugal or another Lusophone
country on their Year Abroad. Native speakers of Portuguese may be present in the classroom.
The module is aimed at developing speaking, reading, writing and translating
skills in Portuguese to an advanced level of ability and help students gain
further insight into aspects of the culture of Portuguese-speaking
countries. Proficiency in Portuguese is consolidated at Level B2 of the
Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR), with some aspects
of Level C1 also explored. You will expand your vocabulary and learn to use increasingly
complex sentences and structures, as well as idioms, expressions and colloquialisms. Both the Brazilian and European
Portuguese varieties are covered, and aspects of Luso-African and Luso-Asian
culture will be explored. Students are encouraged to establish connections with
the materials studied on final-year PORT content modules. By the end of the module, we expect students
to be fluent in one of the world’s most widely spoken languages, and highly
skilled in translating literary and non-fiction texts in a variety of
registers. Course materials:Your tutor will make use of a combination of online
resources, grammars, textbooks and other materials. The following are the most
important books used on the course: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.  The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 credits Level: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) / 300 (PG)Term/s: Term 2 Tutor: Zoltan BiedermannTeaching structure: lectures including screenings, discussions and
possibly student presentations (3hrs per session)UG assessment: one 2,500 word essay (40%); and one 3,000 word essay (60%)PG assessment: one 6,000 word essay (100%)Module Description:This module explores the colonial and post-colonial cultural
production of the Lusophone world in the 20th and 21st
centuries. The first third of the course engages with Portugal, its empire
under the Salazar regime, and how it appropriated the Luso-tropicalist theories
of the Brazilian sociologist and historian Gilberto Freyre. We will learn about
the regime’s scramble for Africa, its management of internal dissent and
migration, its position with regard to World War II, and its adoption of
Lusotropicalism as a state ideology for the shaping of a Lusophone Atlantic
world. We then move to the different ways in which African intellectuals
responded through adoption, adaptation or outward rejection, leading up to the
idea of an armed struggle for independence. The final third of the course
explores the memory of Empire in post-1974 Portugal and its former colonies. We
will discuss the problem of those who returned from Africa and those who
stayed, the ways in which the memory of the colonial wars made its way (or not)
into Lusophone literary and film cultures, and the recent development of
South-South connections that bypass Portugal and (re)connect Africa directly
with Brazil. Along the way, we will watch and discuss a number of films, read
some wonderful books, and – time permitting – explore the current boom of
post-colonial artwork dealing with the trauma of colonial war.This module is taught in English, but a good level of Portuguese is
key for an understanding of many of the materials.  Preparatory viewings: (if you wish to start thinking about the topic):Preparatory Reading and Primary Texts: The full syllabus, including references and links to many more texts
and visual materials, will be available on Moodle. Students are encouraged to
watch the online materials and, once they have an idea of where their interests
are, purchase some of the primary literature. The most relevant secondary
materials will be made available online and in the library. Please contact the
tutor with any questions before you purchase materials.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 credits Level: Advanced Level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG) Term/s: Term 2Tutor: Ana Cláudia Suriani da SilvaUG Assessment: one 2500 word essay (50%); and one 3500 word
portfolio (50%) consisting of a long translation and commentary of a short
story, and a commentary of a group of crônicas.PG Assessment: 1x 6000 word essay (100%).Module
Description:This module provides an opportunity to
develop knowledge of the Brazilian crônica and short story as short
narrative genres, based on certain principals of composition and historical
reception. It will explore key concepts of narrative theory and the
relationship between literature and journalism. A chronological overview of the
short story and crônica will be provided with a focus on the most
prominent Brazilian cronistas and short story writers from the 1870’s to
the present. The module will offer a historical and literary framework for the
critical exploration of the set texts, as it aims to trace the development of
short fiction considering its relationship to major themes, events in
post-colonial Brazilian history.This module emphasises a research-based
approach to teaching and learning, by requiring students to consult and
critically engage with a diverse range of primary sources (newspapers,
magazines, first editions, anthologies, online editions), and by developing
translation skills of specific texts, as part of their
assessment. Students will be encouraged to find their own primary materials of
choice to write their essays. It will be taught in weekly sessions, which will combine a one-hour
lecture in Portuguese and a one-hour seminar in English or Portuguese. Lectures
will engage with a particular author, topic, theoretical issue or historical
moment and introduce the framework for the seminar discussion. Seminars will
consist of close reading of set texts, small group activities, and
workshops. Aims of the module:You may start reading
the primary texts for this course before classes begin. Preparatory
Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.  The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Full YearTutor: Dr Anne Grydehøj Teaching structure: One weekly 2-hour
seminar consisting of discussion and student presentations. Moodle to be used as a repository for
reading materials as well as for preparatory assignments and forum discussions. Assessment: one unseen
three-hour written examination (50%); one oral examination (30%); and
coursework (20%).Module Description:The module aims to: build on
and improve students’ existing language skills, taking students up to a level
of near-native proficiency in all four language skills: speaking, understanding,
writing and reading; enable the students to express themselves in clear,
concise, coherent, fluent, and linguistically and grammatically correct Danish.A high level of student
autonomy will be expected, and the module will to a large extent consist of
students’ own work. Weekly assignments to be completed at home will be given
and the feedback to these will constitute an essential part of the work of perfecting
students’ language competence.Preparatory Reading and Set
Texts:Texts: No textbook is required
for the module; instead, a variety of authentic materials will be used. Grammar: It is recommended
that students own a copy of R Allan, P Holmes & T Lundskær-Nielsen, Danish.
An Essential grammar (Routledge 2000). Dictionaries: It is recommended that students own a Danish dictionary
such as Politiken's Nudansk Ordbog. Students will occasionally need to
consult H Vinterberg & C A Bodelsen, Dansk-engelsk ordbog
(Gyldendal) and B Kjærulf Nielsen, Engelsk-dansk ordbog (Gyldendal),
which can be found in the library.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Full YearTutor: Ms Annika LindskogAssessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (50%); one oral examination (30%); and coursework (20%). Module Description: Aim: To perfect language skills in
spoken and written Swedish, building on previous experience.  Method: A lively approach to the language
using all available methods and developing a range of skills: speaking, reading, comprehension,
translation, essay writing, etc.  Classwork: discussion and talks by students on topics of
current or perennial interest, translation with emphasis on register,
grammatical analysis and advanced vocabulary work.  Private
study: Apart from
essays, translations and other preparations for class, the students are
encouraged to take their own initiative in reading Swedish newspapers,
magazines, listening to the Swedish radio and watching Swedish TV, visiting the
Swedish Church, attending films and other
cultural events. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Full YearTutor: Dr Elettra CarboneAssessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (50%); one oral examination (30%); and coursework (20%).Module Description:The aim of this module is to develop skills in the reading and comprehension of mainly bokmål to near native proficiency. During the module the students will be exposed to different types of original fictional and non-fictional texts and materials, including articles, literary texts, TV debates, films, and speeches. Students will reflect on the differences and similarities between different genres and will gradually be able to imitate different styles and registers.  Oral proficiency will be developed via individual
presentations and class discussions of topics dealing with
contemporary Norwegian issues and other issues of interest to members
of the group.  Student participation is essential.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Textbook There will be no textbook. Instead, there will be a variety of material used, including newspaper and
magazine articles, passages from novels and short stories, previous
exam papers and Norwegian films. Dictionaries All students must own a good
Norwegian-English and English-Norwegian dictionary. One of the
dictionaries must indicate the gender of Norwegian nouns. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Full YearTutor: To be confirmed (Danish), Elettra Carbone (Norwegian) & Annika Lindskog (Swedish)Teaching structure: The module structure incorporates independent reading,
one-to-one discussions with the tutor about the material and oral
presentations with the whole class, written exercises in the form of
the portfolio tasks, and a final essay at the end of the project. The
final essay is expected to show substantial knowledge and understanding
of the topic, as well as an advanced level of communicative and
expressive language skills. Assessment: portfolio work (100%). Module Description:The module aims to expand the vocabulary, oral skills and
written skills of students who already have a high level of fluency and
proficiency in their chosen language. It is designed to challenge all
students at their individual level and give them the maximum
opportunity to develop their own strengths within the framework of the module, while at the same time give the students the opportunity to
undertake a longer and more in-depth study of a specific topic that
relates to their main language.  The module comprises of individual language work on a
topic set by the module tutor each year. The primary skills to be
practised are reading, oral ability, and writing. The outcome of the module will be a portfolio of written work (3 pieces with a combined
length of min.1500 words, and 1 longer piece of about 1500-2000 words)
and one or more oral presentation/s throughout the module  Topics can include, but are not limited to, modern
literature, current social issues, cultural reviews, or a philosophical
or academic debate, and should be chosen with the abilities and talents
of the class and the individual students in mind. As a guide, a minimum
of the equivalent of five book-length texts should be read as basis for
the project. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Full YearTutor: Various (module tutor: Dr Jakob Stougaard-Nielsen
in term 1; Dr
Claire Thomson in term
2)  Teaching structure: 1-hour seminar per week, both teaching terms
Co-taught
and timetabled with:
SCANG001 Advanced Scandinavian Translation
 
Assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (60%); and three
written coursework/problem papers (40%). Module
Description: A
distinctive advantage of learning a Scandinavian language is the ability to
translate into English from all three (Danish, Norwegian, Swedish). This module
is designed to (a) provide practice in translation from the three languages,
(b) identify strategies for using knowledge of one Scandinavian language to
develop comprehension of the two, and (c) introduce translation theory and
apply it to practical translation tasks. The module is timetabled for one hour
per week throughout the academic year, in order to provide ample time to
develop skills. The first five weeks focus on translation theory, using a range
of authentic translations to identify approaches most relevant in the
Scandinavian context. Thereafter, classes cover a range of text-types and
genres across the three languages, organised in three language-specific blocs
of five weeks each. The module is team-taught by language specialists and with
occasional guest appearances from practising Scandinavian-English translators.
Students will be able to attend events relating to translation throughout the
year, including one or more briefing sessions on translation careers and
technological tools for translators.Preparatory Reading and Set
Texts: Mona
Baker, In Other Words: A
Coursebook on Translation,
London: Routledge, 2011. Lawrence
Venuti (ed.), The
Translation Studies Reader (Third
Edition), London: Routledge, 2012.
 
  You
should also familiarise yourself with UCL Library's Translation Studies resources
here: http://www.ucl.ac.uk/library/subject-support/guides/translation-studies Please
note that this module is assessed
by both coursework and examination. In order to allow students full coverage of
the module, the deadline for submission of the coursework is the beginning of
Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time to receive
feedback on the essay before the examination.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 300Term: Full YearConvenor: Dr Mart KuldkeppAssessment: 10,000 word essay (100%)
Available to:
final year undergraduate studentsModule
Description:The
dissertation is a compulsory element of the Scandinavian Studies degree. It is
an original academic work on a topic completely of your choosing. You can write
on any topic you like (so long as a staff member is willing to supervise it)
but are encouraged to write on a topic relating to your specialism (the
language, literature, culture, history etc. of the Scandinavian country you
have focused on during your studies).Students
decide on a topic and find a supervisor by the end of the first term of their
final year. They then research their project over the remaining part of their
final year and submit their dissertation as per deadline.Writing a
dissertation gives you an opportunity to pursue a topic of interest to you in
depth; to produce work that is based on original research; and to develop your
research techniques and skills in academic writing. It can be one of the most
satisfying parts of the degree and you can use it to draw together knowledge
you have acquired over the course of your studies. A successful dissertation
may well form the starting point for further, more independent work at the
postgraduate level, and it will be seen as an important indicator of an
aptitude for research.Important: cannot be taken in
conjunction with SCAN7203. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSPG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Helga LuthersdottirTeaching structure: 2-hour weekly seminar taught in English (joint with SCANG014), consisting of lectures, class discussions and student presentations.Moodle to be used as a repository for reading materials as well as forpreparatory assignments and forum discussions. This module is available to both Final 
Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: One coursework essay of 4,000 words (100%).PG Assessment: One coursework essay of 4,000 words (100%).Module Description:The module works with the idea of “crime literature” as a mode of reading rather than as a specific literary genre. The focus is on the effects of crime on small communities as presented in Icelandic and other Nordic literature predominately from the modern period, including Nordic noir. All assigned readings are in English, although students are welcome to read the texts in the source languages. No prior knowledge of Nordic languages or literature is required.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Because SCAN4204- Modern Icelandic Literature: Special Topics is a special topics module, primary 
readings, as well as topic-specific secondary readings reflect the 
specific topic to be offered and will be selected by tutor each time the module is offered. The lists below are specifically designed for the 
Special Topic: Crime in Small Numbers, to be taught in academic year 
2013-14. All readings are in English although students are welcome to 
read the texts in the source language.Primary Readings:Films: Secondary
Readings: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
PG Value: 30 credits Level: Advanced LevelTotal Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 1Tutor: Dr Erin GoeresTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. UG Assessment: one unseen three-hours written examination (70%) and one 2500-word essay (30%)PG Assessment: One 3,000-word essay (50%) and one three-hours written examination(50%)Module Description:This module forms the logical continuation of Intermediate Old Norse and will combine advanced translation with the in-depth analysis of four set
texts. The first term will focus on Egils
saga and its place within the wider context of the Íslendingasögur, konungasögur
and skáldasögur. The second term will
focus on the poems Eiríksmál and Hákonarmál, as well as the
‘Conversion Verses’ of Hallfreðr vandræðaskáld, set within the context of
Scandinavia’s conversion to Christianity.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: Reading lists will be provided for the
individual texts, but students are strongly advised to read the entirety of Egils saga in translation (available in
Penguin Classics, The Complete Sagas of
Icelanders or similar) before the start of term. The primary text that will be used for translation
will be Bjarni Einarsson’s edition, Egils
saga (London, 2003),  Students may also find it useful to read
any of the Sagas of Warrior-Poets,
ed. Diana Whaley (London, 2002), especially Hallfreðar
saga. Photocopies of the other set
texts will be provided. A useful introduction to Egils saga may be found in any of the following: Useful reference works: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1Tutor: Dr Haki AntonssonTeaching structure: The module will be taught
through a combination of lectures and seminars that will alternative between close
scrutiny of original sources and discussion of wider historical themes.Assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (70%); and one essay (30%).Module Description:The module will focus on
the impact the Vikings had on European society ca. 800-1050. Additionally, the emergence of “new
societies” as a result of Viking exploration in the North
 Atlantic will be examined. Geographically the module will include
Continental Europe, the Insular world, the North Atlantic colonies and Russia.
Particular emphasis will be placed on a close examination of the various
source-categories relevant to the study of the Vikings in Europe.
These sources were produced both from within and outside Scandinavia
and include, inter alia, written
sources, archaeological evidence, numismatics and place-names.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 0.5 course unitTutor: Dr Annika LindskogAssessment: 1 essay of 1,500 words (30%); 1 project of 3,000 words (70%).Module Description:What is a Nordic landscape? How have conceptions of landscape been
perceived, represented, modified and moderated in the Nordic region?
What is the function of landscape today, and how has the traditions of
landscape and landscape perception influenced life in the Nordic
region? This module takes as its starting point that any landscape
never just is, but is continuously appropriated by
inhabitants and observers though art, literature, film, and music, as
well as through activities such as tourism and policy making. Looking
at examples of landscape from historical through to urban landscapes
and the built environment, from the romantic and national landscape
through to today’s environmental and global awareness, and making use
of a wide variety of possible texts – novels and poetry, tourist
brochures and paintings, runestones and films, black metal and
symphonic music, political speeches and travel diaries – the module
aims to consider both the physical space and mental concepts of
landscape in the Nordic region, tracing representations of and rhetoric
around landscape across times and regions. We will work with both
theoretical concepts used in landscape theory and cultural geography,
and concrete and local examples through the written, visual, and aural
texts, trying to gain an understanding of not only the different
approaches to the Nordic landscapes that exist and have existed, but
also how these evolved and what impact they have had and still have.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:For further reading and week-by-week set reading, please refer to the module's moodle site.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1Tutor:  Dr Helga LuthersdottirTeaching structure: Assessment: one assessed 4000 word essay (100%).Module Description:Norse myths and medieval sagas have been the
source for “popular” cultural trends since the first nationalistic approach of
the Romantics in 19th century Europe. Today, such Norse-based representations
have established a distinct visual and thematic identity within popular culture
transcending national and cultural boundaries. Through study of the source
myths combined with theoretical analysis of various popular texts such as
fantasy and graphic novels, comic books, film, music, video games and MMORPGs
(massively multiplayer online role-playing games), this module will guide students
to situate these depictions within a larger theoretical framework of Nordic
studies and cultural theory, while simultaneously
enabling them to analyse their own relationship with the various
representations of the “popular Norse”.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Primary TextsFilmsSecondary TextsAdditional texts will be introduced as the module progresses. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Undergraduate
Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 15 ECTSPostgraduate
Value: 30 creditsUG Level: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Mart KuldkeppTeaching structure: this module is available to both Final Year students and MA students.
All students attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional
tutorial hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. Assessment for SCAN7310:
one unseen two-hour written examination (60%); and one 2500
word essay (40%).Assessment for SCANG017: one assessed 6000 word essay (100%).Available to: Final Year undergraduate students, MA students and affiliatesModule
Description:The Nordic
countries have often been regarded as ‘model’ societies, famous for their high
levels of economic prosperity, social equality and political stability. We will
discuss the historical roots of this distinctive ‘Nordic’ experience and how it
has changed since the end of the Cold War, as the Nordic countries have needed
to adopt to new regional, Europe-wide and global developments. This historical
introduction will be followed by a thematic examination of contemporary Nordic
societies in a comparative perspective, looking at the varied legacies of the
‘Nordic model’. Topics to be covered include Nordic foreign and security
policy, domestic politics and the rise of the populist right, immigration and
integration, crime and justice, gender equality, environmentalism and Nordic
co-operation. It should be noted that a focus on the Nordic countries will also
provide a new perspective on some of the most important developments affecting
the whole of Europe over the last 25 years. Preparatory reading and
set texts: There
are no set texts.  A full reading list will be provided at the start of
the course.Mary
Hilson, The Nordic Model:
Scandinavia since 1945 (London: Reaktion, 2008).David Arter,
Scandinavian Politics Today (Manchester:
Manchester University Press. Third edition).Eric S
Einhorn and John Logue, Modern
Welfare States: Scandinavian Politics and Policy in the Global Era (Westport,
Connecticut, 2003).Knud V
Jespersen, A History of
Denmark, translated Ivan Hill (Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan, 2004). David
Kirby, A Concise History of
Finland (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2006).Jason Lavery,
The History of Finland
(Westport, Conn.: Greenwood Press, 2006).Osmo
Jussila, Seppo Hentilä and Jukka Nevakiri, From
Grand Duchy to Nation State: A political history of Finland since 1809, translated
David and Eva-Kaisa Arter (London:
Hurst & Co, 1999).Gunnar
Karlsson, Iceland's 1100
years : the history of a marginal society (London: Hurst, 1999).Rolf
Danielsen et al., Norway: A History from the Vikings to Our Own Times, translated by Michael Drake (Oslo: Scandinavian
University Press , 1995).Byron J
Nordstrom, The history of
Sweden (Westport, Conn.: Greenwood Press, 2002).Neil Kent,
A Concise History of Sweden (Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 2008).
 
 Notes: This Term 2 module is assessed by both essay and
examination. In order to allow students full coverage of the module, the
deadline for submission of the essay is the beginning of Term 3. In practice,
this will leave no or, at best, limited time to receive feedback on the essay
before the examination.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 300Term: Full YearTutor: Dr Haki AntonssonTeaching structure: The module will be taught through a combination of lectures and seminars.This module is also available as two one-term options, respectively: SCAN7405A - 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS (Term 1)SCAN7405B - 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS (Term 2)Assessment: SCAN 7405 is assessed by one unseen three-hour written examination (50%); and two 2,500 word essays (25% each).Parts A and B are each assessed by 2 essays each of 2500 words (50% each)Module Description:The module will examine society and culture in Scandinavia in the period ca. 800-1100. Geographically the module will encompass Sweden, Denmark Norway, and the Norse colonies in the North Atlantic (the Faroes, Iceland, and Greenland). In the case of Iceland the time-span will extend to the end of the Commonwealth period (ca. 1262). The principal themes that the module will cover include: the causes of the Viking Age; the development and emergence of the three Scandinavian kingdoms; the nature of the pre-Christian religion; the conversion to Christianity; the development of Church organisation; relation with Europe, in particular the Insular world and the beginning of written culture. Particular emphasis will be placed on presenting and analysing the various source-categories relevant to Viking-Age Scandinavia. These include, for example, runic inscriptions, place-names, archaeological evidence and saga literature.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Claire ThomsonTeaching structure: Runs in term 2 2017-18.
Consists of weekly screening plus weekly 2-hour seminarAssessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay (30%); and one assessed 4,000 word project (70%)Module Description:This unit has two main objectives: (a) to enable students to develop the skills to analyse films as
texts in their cultural and historical contexts, and (b) to provide an overview
of the development and range of Nordic film as art and industry, within the
broader context of European film history. The module is structured into three blocks, respectively covering early and silent cinema in Denmark, Norway and Sweden; three Nordic auteurs, Dreyer, Bergman and Kaurismäki; and the notion of contemporary 'small-nation cinema', covering Icelandic film, Dogme 95, intercultural cinema and transnational co-production. In 2015-16 the module runs in term 1, and consists of a weekly two-hour (approx) film screening with introduction, followed the next day by a two-hour seminar.  Students are expected to undertake
preparatory reading for lectures and seminars, to attend all
screenings and seminars, and
to watch additional films as necessary. A detailed course outline and week-by-week reading is available on the
module moodle site (UCL user id and login required).The first essay tests students' grasp of film analysis and their ability to apply it to particular films. The second piece of assessment is a project which is independently designed and researched by the student on a topic of his/her choice, under the guidance of the module tutor. Former students of the module have been able to publish outstanding project work under the auspices of the Norvik Press student writings series - see Framed Horizons below.No knowledge of a Scandinavian language is required as all films are subtitled (though a reading ability in a Scandinavian language does give access to a broader range of primary and secondary materials). Students from outside Scandinavian Studies are welcome to enrol, subject to available space.Key texts:   A
week-by-week reading list is provided at the start of the module. Students are
not expected to buy or read all of the texts below in advance; this list is
indicative only. • Marita Fraser, Melissa Powell, Rose-Anne Ross, Anna V.
Strauss, C. Claire Thomson (eds), Framed Horizons: Student Writing on Nordic Cinema, London: Norvik Press, 2012. • Susan Hayward, Cinema Studies. The Key Concepts (London, Routledge, 2001) and/or another
introduction to film studies. • Mette Hjort, Small Nation, Global Cinema: The New Danish Cinema, Minneapolis: University of Minnesota
Press, 2005.
 
  • Mette Hjort and Ursula Lindqvist (eds), A Companion to Nordic Cinema, Chichester, West Sussex; Malden, MA: John
Wiley & Sons Inc., 2016. [Available full-text via UCL Library]
 
  • Mariah Larsson and Anders Marklund (eds): Swedish Film: An Introduction
and Reader, Lund:
Nordic Academic Press, 2010. • Andrew Nestingen and Trevor Elkington (eds), Transnational Cinema in a
Global North: Nordic Cinema in Transition, Detroit: Wayne State University Press,
2005. • Eva Novrup Redvall, Writing and Producing Television Drama in Denmark: From The
Kingdom to The Killing (Palgrave Studies in Screenwriting), Basingstoke: Palgrave,
2013. • Tytti Soila, Astrid Söderbergh-Widding and Gunnar Iversen, Nordic National Cinemas, London: Routledge, 1998. • John Sundholm et al. (eds), Historical Dictionary of Scandinavian Cinema, Plymouth: Scarecrow Press, 2012. (spot
the deliberate mistake on the cover on Amazon!) • C. Claire Thomson (ed.), Northern Constellations: New Readings in Nordic Cinema, Norwich, Norvik Press, 2006. • Journal
of Scandinavian Cinema  • Resources provided by the Nordic Film Institutes are plentiful
and include downloadable magazines and sub-sites on major filmmakers (there is
an English-language version of all these sites): Danish Film Institute, Icelandic Film
Centre, Finnish Film Foundation, Norwegian Film
Institute, Swedish Film Institute, Carl Th. Dreyer: The Man and his Work, Ingmar Bergman.se Weekly
film screenings (indicative): Afgrunden (The Abyss, dir. Urban Gad, Denmark, 1910) Körkarlen (The Phantom Carriage, dir. Victor Sjöström, Sweden, 1920) Den
hemmelighetsfulle leiligheten
(The Mysterious Apartment, dir. Tancred Ibsen, Norway, 1948) Det
sjunde inseglet (The
Seventh Seal, dir. Ingmar Bergman, Sweden, 1957) Gertrud
(Gertrud, dir. Carl Th. Dreyer,
Denmark, 1966)
 
  Mies
vailla menneisyyttä (The
Man without a Past, dir. Aki Kaurismäki, Finland, 2002)
 
  Börn
náttúrunnar
(Children of Nature, dir. Friðrik Þór Friðriksson, Iceland, 1991)  Festen (The Celebration, dir. Thomas Vinterberg, Denmark, 1998) Zozo
(dir. Josef Fares, Sweden,
2005) Miss
Julie (dir. Liv Ullmann, Norway/Sweden/Ireland,
2014) Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
30
UCL credits / 1.0 course units / 15 ECTS 
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 300
 Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2Tutor: various
Module convenors: Adolfo Sánchez Cuadrado & Marga Navarrete Teaching
structure:Assessment 2017-18:
Final Desk Exam with components of
Grammar, Composition in Spanish, Translation into Spanish and Translation into
English (50%); Oral Exam (20%);
Coursework (30%). The coursework consists of two grammar
quizzes, two oral presentations, two writing exercises in Spanish, two
translations into Spanish, and two translations into English. The
breakdown for coursework marks is 3% for each component.Assessment 2016-17: Module
Description:This is an advanced Spanish language
module designed for finalists, consolidating level C1 and exploring level C2 of
the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR). In the Grammar
and Communicative Skills classes, you will consolidate your skills acquired in
your Year Abroad. You will also improve your language proficiency by carrying
out tasks at C2 level (the highest of CEFR levels). Therefore, you will be
exposed and will have to use increasingly sophisticated language in a wider variety
of contexts and registers. Different varieties
of Spanish will be explored. The Translation classes will consolidate your
translation competences already acquired in the previous years. You will be
encouraged to make connections with your experience in the Year Abroad and
broaden your knowledge of Hispanic culture(s). Set Textbooks*:VV. AA. (2013), Nuevo
Prisma C2. Libro de ejercicios. Madrid: Edinumen. 160 pages. ISBN: 9788498482607. (Please note
that Nuevo Prisma C2 has two components, Libro del alumno and
Libro de ejercicios. Students are only required to buy the Libro
de ejercicios as referenced).VV. AA. (2012), Developing
Writing Skills in Spanish. London and New York: Routledge. 372 pages.
Hardback ISBN: 9780415590822. Paperback ISBN: 9780415590839. [Digital copy
available from UCL library]. *Students are required to get a copy of each book and are expected to bring them to their respective classes.
 
 Reference Grammar
(recommended):VV. AA. (2011, 2013),
A New Reference Grammar of Modern Spanish. 5th Edition. Oxon
y Nueva York: Routledge. 608 pages. ISBN: 9781444137699. [Digital copy
available for temporary download from UCL library, and permanent on-line viewing
from UCL library].VV.AA. (2011), Practising
Spanish Grammar. 3rd Edition. London: Routledge. 248 pages.
ISBN: 978-1444137705 [Digital copy available from UCL library]. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term/s: Term 1 (SPAN4001A) Term 2 (SPAN4001B)Tutor: Alejandro Bolanos-Garcia Escribano and Haydn KirnonAvailable to: Affiliate students who are native speakers of Spanish.Teaching structure: SPAN4001A (0.5cu) in term 1, SPAN4001B (0.5cu) in term 2. Assessment: Assessment is based on coursework (50% of the overall grade) and an unseen in-class final exam paper (50% of the overall grade).Module Description:This is a practical, advanced-level language module designed for native Spanish-speaking affiliate students. It consists of translation from Spanish into English as well as comprehension and discussion of English texts.The course is based on a weekly, 2-hour class which is split between guided translation, student presentations, and group discussions. Beyond the class, you will be expected to spend a further 4-6 hours per week working on coursework set by the tutor.The objectives of this course are:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 150  Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Maria Chiara D'ArgenioAssessment: one 3000 word essay (40%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (60%).Module Description:In this module,
we will study a number of avant-garde movements that emerged across Latin
America in the twentieth century. We will examine how these vanguard movements
responded to, and were influenced by, the social and political transformations
of various countries in the region. Through the work of Vicente Huidobro,
Felisberto Hernández, Manuel Maples Arce, Xul Solar, Oliverio Girondo, Nicolás
Guillén and César Vallejo we will explore fundamental notions brought to the
forefront by the vanguard movements, such as the category of the new, the place
and importance of the artists and of art in continuously changing societies,
the concepts of autonomy vs. socially and politically engaged art, and ideas of
‘rehumanization’ of art. We will examine the proposals of the Latin American
avant-garde movements, how they were influenced and articulated, and consider
their legacy in Latin America.This module is taught by lectures
and seminars which will include regular group discussion.Students
should read all the texts listed below and the supplementary readings indicated
by the course tutor before the allocated class.Texts:Introductory bibliography:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG) Term/s: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Humberto Núñez-FaracoTeaching Structure:This module is available to both
 Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG assessment:  one 3000 word essay (40%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (60%)PG assessment: one 6000 word essay (100%)Module Description: This module focuses on the work of Jorge Luis Borges, who is widely
recognized as the most influential writer in modern Spanish American
literature. It seeks to comprehend the
complexity of his work, from the nationalistic aspirations of the 1920s to the
universality of his mature writing.N.B. This module is taught in Spanish language
(seminars will be held in English).Methodology:All classes combine an initial 50-minute lecture followed by a
reading seminar or presentation. There will be a 5-minute pause in-between.
Students are kindly requested to read in advance the corresponding texts for
each week.Class notes will be posted on Moodle after each lecture/seminar. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This
module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may
be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsSPAN4117A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The module takes place at the same time as SPAN4117.Level: Advanced Level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG) Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Alexander SamsonTeaching Structure:This module is available to both
 Final Year students, affiliate students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: One essay (40%) and one two hour examination (60%). 
PG Assessment: One 6,000 word essay.SPAN4117A Assesment: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Module Description:Often described as the best book of all
time, Miguel de Cervantes’s Don Quixote
has also been credited with being the first novel. Cervantes described his
world and the people around him with an exceptional combination of sympathy and
wit. Acutely observed, Cervantes’s fiction is also very funny. Only Shakespeare
is widely attributed with equal brilliance.But while Don Quixote is at the core of this course, we will also read one of his Novelas ejemplares, 'Rinconete
y Cortadillo'.The roots of Cervantes’s genius are his
own experience (he led an accident-ridden but exciting life during which he was
decorated for bravery in battle and imprisoned while working as a taxman) and
his own reading and interest in the theatre (for he was a playwright before he
invented the novel). The course will touch on the chivalric literature parodied
in Don Quixote while also introducing
students to Humour Theory and its relevance to the Cervantine cannon.Please note that students will be
expected to have read at least Part I of Don Quijote de la Mancha by the start of term.Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS   Level: Advanced Level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Joana Rita RamalhoAssessment: one assessed 3,000 word essay (40%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (60%). In the exam, students must answer questions on films not studied for the coursework essay. Module Description: This module examines the
development of Spanish film from the late 1990s onwards focusing on issues
such as gender, migration, genre, the k;influence of Hollywood and the increasing
globalisation of the film industry. Films (subject to availability):Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(SPAN4307A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The module takes place at the same time as SPAN4307.) Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Term 1 Tutor: Professor Stephen HartAssessment: SPAN4307: One 3,000 word coursework essay (40%), and one, two hour exam (60%).
SPAN4307A: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module Description:Cultural Dilemmas II analyses cultural dilemmas in a selection of Latin
American texts and films with particular reference to the avant-garde,
the "Boom" novel  and the
"slick grit" of contemporary Latin American film. Schedule:Week 1: The
avant-garde in Latin AmericaWeek 2: The
avant-garde in Latin AmericaWeek 3: Gabriel
García Márquez, El amor en los tiempos del cólera (1985) (novel)Week 4: Gabriel
García Márquez, El amor en los tiempos del cólera (1985) (novel)Week 5: Alejandro
González Iñárritu, Amores
perros (2000) (film)Week 6: Alejandro
González Iñárritu, Amores
perros (2000) (film)Week 7: Walter
Salles, Diarios de
motocicleta (2004) (film)Week 8: Walter
Salles, Diarios de
motocicleta (2004) (film)Week 9:
Alfonso Cuarón, Gravity (2013)Week 10: Alfonso
Cuarón, Gravity (2013) Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term/s: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Maria Chiara D'ArgenioTeaching Structure:This module is available to both
 Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG assessment: One
3000-word essay (40%) and a two-hour desk exam (60%)PG assessment: One 6000-word essay (100%)Module
Description:This module examines the portrayal of the city in Latin American
culture in a variety of genres (including essays, novels, short stories and
films) and analyses the roles urban spaces have played within perceptions and
projections of individual and national identities in different parts of the
region at different times during the twentieth and twenty-first centuries. Classes will take the form of lectures
followed by seminars involving discussion and close analysis of the primary
texts/films studied.Please note that this Term 2
module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination.Preparatory
Reading and a Selection of Course Texts/Films and supplementary texts:Key Theoretical Readings:Primary Texts:* You should investigate sources for the primary texts as early as possible (some may need to be delivered from the US)* Extensive supplementary reading lists will be provided at the beginning of the coursePlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(SPAN4400A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The module takes place at the same time as SPAN4400.)Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS   Level: Advanced Level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term/s: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Adrian PearceAssessment: SPAN4400: Two 2,000-word essays (each weighted at 50%)SPAN4400A: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). 
Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module description:This module
discusses the history of Latin America during the past two centuries, a period
during which it took on many of the key characteristics which define it today.
Powerful but disfunctional states, and populist, personalist politics; great
wealth contrasting with widespread poverty and social disenfranchisement; sprawling
mega-cities where Spanish is to all intents and purposes the only game in town,
while in some rural regions, millions speak native languages; stark problems of
racism and racial discrimination, within societies that regard themselves as
multi-cultural; and a strong love-hate relationship with the United States, all
these are the product of trends developing across the two hundred years since Independence. The first sessions are devoted
to the nineteenth century, and look at the political and economic aftermath of
Independence and the “Age of Caudillos”, in the period from the 1820s to the
1870s; slavery and abolition in Latin America, and their consequences for
Afro-Latin Americans; the Belle Epoque
(for elites) of the period from the 1870s to 1920s, that left such a striking
architectural legacy in cities such as Buenos Aires; and the ongoing
relationship of Spain with Latin America during the nineteenth century, to the
loss of Cuba and Puerto Rico in 1898.Later sessions are devoted to
the twentieth century, and begin with the mass immigration from Europe that
reshaped the region and many of its countries between the 1870s and the 1930s.
We then look at dominant political forms from the 1930s onwards, as they passed
through populism and authoritarianism, to the military regimes of the 1960s and
1970s. A related class considers the role of revolution in modern Latin
America, from Mexico in 1910 to Cuba in 1959. We then discuss democratisation
and social change in the period from the 1970s through to the 2000s. Two final
sessions consider modern Latin American history from an external perspective
and from a distinctive domestic viewpoint: firstly, through the prism of (often
troubled) relationships with the United States, and secondly of (equally
problematic) relations between indigenous peoples and nation states, with
particular focus on the Andean region. Indicative Bibliography (a full bibliography will be distributed at the start of the course). General historiesBrown, Matthew, From Frontiers to
Football: An Alternative History of Latin America since 1800 (London,
2014).Fowler,
Will, Latin America since 1780 (Modern
History for Modern Languages) 3rd ed. (London, 2015).Holden, Robert, and Rina Villars, Contemporary
Latin America (London, 2012).Primary source collections in EnglishBuffington, Robert, and Lila Caimari (eds.), Keen’s Latin American Civilization: A Primary Source Reader, vol.
2, The Modern Era 10th ed.
(Boulder, COL., 2016).See also the excellent country-specific “Reader” series of collections of
key documents in translation, published by Duke University Press, for which
volumes currently exist for Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Costa Rica, Cuba,
Ecuador, Guatemala, Mexico, Paraguay, and Peru (a volume for Colombia is
forthcoming in December 2016).Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: (30 postgraduate credits)  Level: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG Term/s: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Gareth WoodTeaching Structure:This module is available to both
 Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG assessment: One 3,000 word coursework essay (50%) and one, two hour exam (50%).PG assessment: One 6,000 word coursework essay (100%). Module Description:This module will examine the changing ways in which the Spanish Civil War and subsequent dictatorship have been represented in the contemporary Spanish novel. Although Spain’s transition from Franco’s thirty-six year dictatorship to democracy has been considered a success-story, underlying tension and resentment between the opposing sides of the country’s political divide remain. A country in which the defeated of the war were treated as second-class citizens and their dead comrades excluded from official commemoration of the victims clearly has some catching up to do when it comes to national reconciliation. Spain's novelists have reflected this situation through their works, questioning the national silence over the uncomfortable past during the transition to democracy and, in more recent times, joining the national debate on how best to acknowledge both sides of the fratricidal conflict.  This half-course unit will take in the period immediately after Franco's death, when writers tried to negotiate their way through the political minefield of discussing the war and dictatorship when the on-going transition made those topics taboo. The novels we shall read and discuss seek to evade or confront these taboos in a variety of genres including the fictional memoir/fantastic novel, social realism, and the trauma narrative.Students who participate in this module will gain an insight into Spain's twentieth century history, the factors that determine its past and present political make-up, and how those have shaped debates that are continuing as we speak.More importantly, they will also read and enjoy six thought-provoking and engaging novels from the last three decades by some of the best writers of that period.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:The primary phase: the Transition to democracy (0.5 CU)Primary textsA secondary bibliography would include: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150  Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Deborah MartinAssessment: one essay (40%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (60%) Module Description:This module will focus on the representation of children in
film, with special attention to the kind of function childhood fulfills in
Latin American cinema. This will allow us to explore thematic questions of
nationhood, politics, gender and sexuality, and the way childhood is used to
envision the past and history, as well as the future and social change. We will
also consider questions specific to cinematic and visual representation, such
as whether and how filmmakers attempt to create a child’s view of the world
through aesthetic means, and ethical questions arising around the
representation of child suffering and death.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:FilmsInitial Secondary BibliographyPlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(SPAN4414A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The module takes place at the same time as SPAN4414.)Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Advanced Level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term/s: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Humberto Núñez-FaracoAssessment: SPAN4414: 3000 word coursework essay (40%), unseen 2 hour desk examination (60%).SPAN4414A: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module Description:The Peruvian writer, folklorist and ethnologist José María Arguedas
(1911-1969) is not only the most prominent representative of the neo-indigenist
literary movement in the Andean region but also one of its most acute
interpreters, particularly with respect to the cultural values and traditions
of the Quechua communities of his native country. This course explores
Arguedas’s vivid representation of the Andean world through a careful reading
of some of his most important literary and ethnological works. From his early
short stories and novels—in which he draws from his own personal experiences
among the Indians of the southern sierra—to his insightful essays on the historical
development of Andean mestizo culture and society, Arguedas captures
the spirit of a people that have endured centuries of oppression and, at the
same time, presents a challenging economic model for its social and political
survival.N.B. This module is taught in Spanish
(seminar discussions are held in English) Methodology: All classes combine an initial 50-minute lecture followed by group
discussion (seminar), with a 5-minute pause in-between. Students are requested to read in advance the corresponding texts for
each seminar and to bring to class their notes from reading.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Historical and anthropological
essays:Narrative:Verse:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term/s: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Tyler FisherTeaching Structure:This module is available to both
 Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG assessment: one 3000-word
coursework essay (40%), and one 3000-word portfolio (60% [comprising the student's
selection of original, revised microcuentos (15%), and reflective commentary
(45%)]).PG assessment: one 4000-word coursework essay (40%), and one 3000-word portfolio.Module Description:This
module examines the
poetics and practice of microcuentos, or short-short stories, in modern
Hispanic literature. It involves literary analysis of particular texts, the
broader study of the genre in context, and the composition of original Spanish
prose. The creative, compositional component will necessarily review and build
on the grammar and vocabulary that students have mastered in their degree
course to this point. While refining their Spanish linguistic skills, students
will have the opportunity to engage with fundamental questions about how
language and narrative work in miniature. The
module tutor convenes and facilitates lectures and seminars. All course
information will be made available via Moodle, as well as many of the primary
texts for lectures and seminars. You may start reading for this module before
classes begin. Key readings are marked with an asterisk in the list of texts.Preparatory
Reading and Set Texts: *Juan
Pedro Aparicio, Luis Mateo Díez, and José María Merino, Palabras en la nieve: Un filandón. *Cuentos breves y extraordinarios, eds.
Jorge Luis Borges and Adolfo Bioy Casares. *Entre ínsulas y penínsulas: haiku narrativo
y otros microcuentos, ed. Tyler Fisher. Augusto
Monterroso, La oveja negra y demás
fábulas.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This degree combines a Scandinavian language and History.This degree combines two modern languages.This degree combines a modern language and another, non-language subject.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UCL's four-year Icelandic BA is the only degree programme of its kind outside Iceland. The programme aims to develop your interest in, and knowledge and understanding of Iceland and the Nordic world, in areas including other Scandinavian languages, literature, culture and history. Your third year is spent abroad at the University of Iceland.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language.Choose from a
range of first-year ELCS modules.  
Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate second-year modules related to your chosen language.Choose from a
range of intermediate ELCS modules.Year ThreeYou spend your
Year Abroad in a country where your target language is spoken. Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics advanced
modules related to your chosen language or including ELCS modules.   For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective Student website.The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications and test providers can be found on our English language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International Education.These entrance requirements refer to the September 2018 intake, and may be subject to revision for 2019. This page will be updated in September 2018 with subject-specific entrance requirements for students planning to commence their degrees in September 2019.Upon graduation you will be fluent in Icelandic and also have knowledge of other medieval and modern Scandinavian languages. The historical and literary parts of the degree will develop your cultural awareness. You will be trained in the organisation, presentation and interpretation of complex information, written and oral communication, and independent and group work.Many of our graduates find they are able to use their Nordic languages in a variety of contexts, such as working for Scandinavian companies. Recent graduates have also entered translating, publishing and teaching.Please see first destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) from European Languages, Culture and Society programmes at UCL for a selection of representative careers.*Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.Your personal statement should reflect your interests and goals, especially with respect to your proposed degree. Some knowledge or experience of Icelandic culture is expected, as well as an explanation of how this has motivated you to learn more. We do not necessarily require a language at A level or equivalent, but expect you to demonstrate an enthusiasm and aptitude for language learning.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation make you well suited to our degree and you receive an offer, we shall invite you to a post-offer open day. There, you will be able to experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as your cultural awareness, motivation for study and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2017/18 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2018 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

 
                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This four-year BA, taught in conjunction with UCL's School of Slavonic & East European Studies (SSEES), combines study of the languages and culture of Scandinavia with a wide range of optional modules in the history of the Nordic and Baltic regions. Year three is spent in a Scandinavian country.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.  For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective Student website.The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications and test providers can be found on our English language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International Education.These entrance requirements refer to the September 2018 intake, and may be subject to revision for 2019. This page will be updated in September 2018 with subject-specific entrance requirements for students planning to commence their degrees in September 2019.Upon graduation you will be fluent in your chosen language and have a reading knowledge of other Scandinavian languages. The historical and literary parts of the degree will develop your cultural awareness. You will be trained in the organisation, presentation and interpretation of complex information, written and oral communication, and independent and group work.Many of our graduates find they are able to use their Scandinavian languages in a variety of contexts, such as working for Scandinavian companies. Recent graduates have also entered translating, publishing and teaching.Please see first destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) from European Languages, Culture and Society  programmes at UCL for a selection of representative careers.*Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.Your personal statement should reflect your interests and goals, especially with respect to your proposed degree. Some knowledge or experience of Scandinavian culture is expected, as well as an explanation of how this has motivated you to learn more. We do not necessarily require a language at A level or equivalent, but expect you to demonstrate an enthusiasm and aptitude for language learning.Students who have not yet decided on their chosen language should contact the SELCS Admissions Office.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation make you well suited to our degree and you receive an offer, we shall invite you to a post-offer open day. There, you will be able to experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as your cultural awareness, motivation for study and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 
   School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This four-year programme aims to develop your knowledge and understanding of the Viking Age through study of the medieval and modern Scandinavian languages, Old Norse literature, and medieval history. The third year is spent abroad at a university in Denmark, Iceland, Norway or Sweden.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language.Choose from a
range of first-year ELCS modules.  
Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate second-year modules related to your chosen language.Choose from a
range of intermediate ELCS modules.Year ThreeYou spend your
Year Abroad in a country where your target language is spoken. Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics advanced
modules related to your chosen language or including ELCS modules.   For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective Student website.The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications and test providers can be found on our English language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International Education.These entrance requirements refer to the September 2018 intake, and may be subject to revision for 2019. This page will be updated in September 2018 with subject-specific entrance requirements for students planning to commence their degrees in September 2019.Upon graduation you will be fluent in your chosen language and have a reading knowledge of other Scandinavian languages. The historical and literary parts of the degree will develop your cultural awareness. You will be trained in the organisation, presentation and interpretation of complex information, written and oral communication, and independent and group work.Many of our graduates find they are able to use their Scandinavian languages in a variety of contexts, such as working for Scandinavian companies. Recent graduates have also entered translating, publishing and teaching.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme at UCL include:*Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.Your personal statement should reflect your interests and goals, especially with respect to your proposed degree. Some knowledge or experience of Scandinavian culture is expected, as well as an explanation of how this has motivated you to learn more. We do not necessarily require a language at A level or equivalent, but expect you to demonstrate an enthusiasm and aptitude for language learning.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation make you well suited to our degree and you receive an offer, we shall invite you to a post-offer open day. There, you will be able to experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as your cultural awareness, motivation for study and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.Students who have not decided between Danish, Norwegian or Swedish are encouraged to contact the SELCS Admissions Office. Students who wish to take Icelandic as part of this programme should also contact the SELCS Admissions Office.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				BA Dutch, BA French, BA German, BA Icelandic, BA Italian, BA Scandinavian Studies, BA Spanish and Latin American Studies, BA Viking and Old Norse Studies.Our
single honours, or single language, degrees comprise both language
study (25%), and study of a wide range of options in literature, linguistics,
modern history and politics, medieval history and culture, film studies, and other
aspects of European culture. Your first year will introduce you to different
disciplines and areas of study, and from your second year onwards, you will be
able to start specialising in your own interests. The Year Abroad will be spent
in a country where your language is spoken. For further details on the degrees, structure and entry requirements please use the links below:BA DutchBA FrenchBA GermanBA IcelandicBA ItalianBA Italian Studies: Dual DegreeBA Scandinavian StudiesBA Spanish and Latin American StudiesBA Viking and Old Norse StudiesThe Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				You can study Spanish in SELCS as a single honours degree or in combinaton with another language or subject.This is a single-subject degree.This degree combines two modern languages.This degree combines a modern language and another, non-language subject.Film from the Undergraduate Open Day Spanish taster sessionThe fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Can I attend an Open Day?Yes, SELCS is represented by the Admissions Officer and Admissions Tutor at the following:Alternatively, if you are unable to attend either of these events then you may take:Finally, you may contact Undergraduate Admissions Officer to make an appointment to visit SELCS (visit Contact Us).How do I make an application to SELCS?All applicants interested in pursuing a SELCS degree programme on a full-time basis should submit a UCAS application by 15th January. Any applications made to UCAS after the 15th January will only be considered if there is still availability on the particular  programme you have applied for. More information about making an application can be found on the UCAS website. As soon as we receive your application we will write to you personally to request your language combination or language choice (for BA Modern Language, BA Modern Language Plus, BA Language and Culture and BA Comparative Literature). Can I apply for more than one SELCS degree programme?Yes, that's absolutely fine. If you do decide to do this then ensure that your UCAS personal statement caters to both degree programmes you have applied for.Does SELCS accept deferred entry applications?SELCS is happy to receive applications from prospective students who would like to take a gap year. If your decision to take a year out before starting university is related to your studies you may want to mention this in your UCAS form personal statement.How difficult is it to secure a place in SELCS?The ratio of applicants to place across SELCS is approximately 9 applications for every place available. The rate differs across the School's programmes, and can also fluctuate from year-to-year. Although this statistic can seem very daunting, as long as you are predicted, or have achieved, the relevant entry requirements then you are eligible to be considered for a place and should not be put off making an application.What subjects does SELCS prefer?SELCS doesn't ask that students study a particular combination of subjects other than the subjects necessary for the programme that you wish to pursue (see the "entry requirements" tab for further information). UCL preferred subjectsHow important is the personal statement of my UCAS form?The personal statement is a very important to help us to make informed decisions about whether an application should be considered further, and ultimately be the recipient of an offer. The Admissions Team look at the quality of writing in English, critical perceptiveness, depth of reading in the target language, intellectual acuity and curiosity. Evidence of interest in, motivation and an understanding of the literature, culture and society you have chosen to study, as well as an awareness of what studying foreign language(s) at university entails are also important. Finally, we look to see that you have understood the nature of the degree programme within SELCS to which you have applied and any extramural experiences relevant to your potential studies, such as volunteering and creative activities.What if I am applying to SELCS for a course that isn't available elsewhere? How do I tailor my personal statement?We are aware that some of our courses are only available at UCL, and you are applying for 5 choices with your UCAS form and personal statement. We do not require an additional personal statement as part of your application. Try to focus on the relevant skills that are relevant to all the courses you are applying for.Can I study any languages ab initio?You can study the majority of our languages ab inition (from beginners level) apart from French and Spanish, we only teach these languages at advanced level (post A-level or equivalent).The SELCS languages which can be studied ab initio are Dutch, German, Italian. Portugese and the Scandinavian languages (Danish, Icelandic, Norwegian and Swedish).If you wish to study Spanish or French ab initio (from below A-level standard) then you should consdier the BA Language & Culture. This degree programme has specifically been designed to increase the flexibility of language choices to SELCS students. With this in mind, students are able to study any of our languages on offer ab initio through either the specific language department or the UCL Centre for Languages and International Education (CLIE).Are mature students welcome to apply to a SELCS degree?Yes. SELCS tries to be as flexible as possible when it comes to mature students (people who are 21 years old at the point of entry to university). With the study of languages it is obviously important that you can demonstrate your aptitude for languages, therefore, you may find it worthwhile to contact the Undergraduate Admissions Officer to discuss your eligibility (visit Contact Us).What is the SELCS stance upon resits and/or taking three years to pass my A Levels?We are happy for prospective SELCS students to resit elements of their study to improve upon their original marks. If this means that your A-Level studies (or equivalent) take longer than the usual period of time, this is absolutely fine. If you do resit any elements of your exams it is very helpful for this to be - briefly - mentioned in your UCAS form as it helps to explain any information that may seem unusual.Does SELCS admit students via Clearing?The SELCS Admissions Tutors make more offers than the School has places available which means that SELCS does not participate in UCAS Clearing.Does UCL offer Halls of Residence accommodation?Yes. UCL guarantees Hall of Residence accommodation to all prospective students that choose UCL as their firm choice institution and have made an on-time application for accommodation to Student Residences (by 31st May of your year of entry).What careers can I go on to have as a graduate of SELCS?Languages equip you for a wide range of careers including everything from business, finance, the media, journalism, law and hospitality to public relations, the police, advertising, translation and interpreting, and teaching. As well as a very full programme of recruitment and other events, the UCL Careers Service run specific events advertising international and overseas career opportunities every year, targeting our undergraduates.How can I find out more about the academics across SELCS?Visit People pageWhat are Interdepartmental Modules?The Interdepartmental Modules or European Languages, Culture and Society (ELCS) modules are the modules run by SELCS (as opposed to the individual departments of the School). These modules are taught by academics from across the School which allows SELCS students to tap into the expertise of academics that are from outside of their home department. ELCS modules are usually based around literature, history, linguistics and film.View Interdepartmental ModulesHow does the year abroad work?SELCS offers a full range of possible options for the Year Abroad, depending upon your degree programme, which is a compulsory part of all our programmes (except BA Comparative Literature). We have educational exchanges with universities from Buenos Aires to Berlin, from Paris to Rome. It is also possible to teach English through the British Council Assistantship scheme in a school, or undertake a work placement or internship (subject to approval).The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Studying abroad is an exciting and highly rewarding, though often challenging experience, and one that will remain with you for the rest of your life. The experiences and skills developed while abroad further academic and personal development, cultural and social awareness, provide a foundation for further study and enhance career prospects (The Guardian, The Telegraph).The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes, which enables students to:•   Learn substantial new
academic and, in some cases, professional skills•   Develop spoken and
written language skills to a near-native level of proficiency•   Gain in-depth
knowledge of the culture they are studying•   Become independent and travel more widely•   Get ready for an international workplace•   Make new friends and contacts while learningYou can spend your Year Abroad studying at a partner university, teaching English in a school abroad via British Council, or organise a work placement for yourself. Click on a relevant link below for more information:•   Dutch•   French•   German•   Italian•   Portuguese•   Scandinavian Languages•   Spanish•   Students studying one language spend the whole Year Abroad in a country where the language is spoken.•   Students studying two languages split the Year Abroad between two countries where their target languages are spoken.•   Language and Culture BA and Comparative Literature BA students spend the full year at a university where the main language they are studying is spoken or they can apply for a British Council placement.•   'One language - one placement' rule: students studying one language cannot split their year between two institutions.•   Students splitting 
their Year Abroad between two countries must check and ensure the dates
 of the two placements do not overlap.•   Students are required to complete the full term of their allocated university placement, language assistantship or work placement.Students from other UCL departments should
consult their programme tutors and administrators about their Year Abroad
arrangements.The central UCL Study Abroad Team will advise students on all aspects of fees and funding for their Year Abroad. Please refer to their Finance webpage for more information.Some students may have visa requirements for some placements. The central UCL Study Abroad Team will provide guidance on this.Year Abroad modules are pass/fail only and do not contribute to the calculation of the degree classification. Year 2 students and students currently abroad should refer to the Year Abroad chapter of the SELCS UG Students Handbook on Moodle and to guidance on the central UCL Study Abroad Team website for more information and support.Please note: Information is accurate at the time of publication. The placement options are revised and the number of study places at partner universities is negotiated on an annual basis. This means that options may be subject to change, study places do fluctuate or partnerships can be pulled altogether, with very little notice. Please do remember this when you're thinking about your Year Abroad options and remember - the key to becoming a Global Citizen is to have an open mind!The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
 			    
				 The School of European Languages & Culture (SELCS)
comprises the Departments of Dutch, French, German, Italian, Scandinavian Studies and Spanish & Latin
American Studies. For the full
range of Programmes offered by each department, and more information on 
what each Programme offers, please visit the departments using the links below.UCL houses the largest centre for Dutch Studies in the English-speaking world. Find out more about our Programmes of study and Research.The department is at the cutting edge of current debate in French literature, culture, politics and film and is consistently ranked among the best in the world.The department is an interdisciplinary centre of excellence, offering the study of language and linguistics, literature, history, politics, theory and film.One of the biggest Italian departments in the UK, UCL Italian leads on all periods of Italian literature, from Dante to the present day.The department teaches the language, literature, history, linguistics and visual culture of Denmark, the Faroe Islands, Iceland, Norway and Sweden.Established in 1828 by Antonio Alcalá Galiano, the Department was one of the first in the UK and remains today a centre of academic excellence.With its exceptional range of modern and ancient languages and cultures, UCL provides a comprehensive environment for comparative literary study.This distinctive and highly flexible programme provides enormous scope for you to customise your degree according to your interest in languages, linguistics, film, literature and history.SELCS staff also provide the teaching within the following centres:Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				View of the Grand Canal from Rialto to Ca'Foscari - By Didier DescouensMany degree combinations and more.We offer Italian classes whatever your level....and read their experiences of studying at UCL....their exciting research makes for inspiring tuitionAnd apply!
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Third Floor, Foster Court, Malet Place, off Torrington Place, London, WC1E 6BT(Bloomsbury Campus - see UCL maps)
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				View of the Grand Canal from Rialto to Ca'Foscari - By Didier DescouensMade in Italy is a new series of evening courses
offering a uniquely comprehensive approach to learning the culture and history
of Italy.Since it started in 2015, our range of courses attracts adult
learners who wish to explore Italy’s cultural heritage and contemporary culture
through art, texts, literature and films.Joining our evening courses gives you access to the
world-renowned Italian department at UCL. Experts in the field will adapt and
share their research to make your learning experience profound and enjoyable at
the same time. 
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 From Cabiria to the Present: Key
Moments in Italian Cinema (Monday, 10 weeks in Term 3)   This
module will examine key moments and trends in Italian cinema from the early 20th century to the present day. The course will cover silent cinema, Neorealism, political films,
comedies and noir. It will look at the work of internationally famed directors
such as Roberto Rossellini, Luchino Visconti, Ettore Scola, Pietro Germi,
Bernardo Bertolucci, and Paolo Sorrentino. Module taught by Dr Cristina Massaccesi, Dr
Lucia Rinaldi and Dr Marta Niccolai
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 If you have no formal qualification in the subject of Medieval and
Renaissance studies but you have a strong interest and have pursued the subject
independently, attendance to two or more Made in Italy courses on Medieval and
Renaissance studies will allow you to apply for an MA  in Medieval Renaissance Studies.  Please check their entry requirements
under MA degree (Prospective students).     1) Introduction to Renaissance studies (Thursday,
10 weeks in Term 3) The module will cover the period of the 1500, in particular,
the debate between religion and astronomy with the controversial figure of
Galileo Galilei, the question of etiquette and morality through The Book of the Courtier by Baldassarre
di Castiglione, and great leaders, laws and arms discussed by Niccolò Machiavelli
in his famous The Prince. Module taught by Andrew Campbell. 2) The Renaissance genius (Tuesday, 10 weeks in Term 2) This unique module will explore the concept of ‘genius’
through the concept of the ideal Renaissance man and the classical concept of humanitas .  Are humans limitless in their capacity for
development? What lessons can we draw from the idea of universal education?
Through seminars, analyses of texts and images, the course will illustrate the
multifaceted reality of some of the greatest thinkers of the Renaissance and of
all times, namely, Leon Battista Alberti, Leonardo da Vinci and Michelangelo
Buonarroti.  Module taught by Dr Tiziana Provvidera. 3) Magicians and Philosophers in the Renaissance (Monday, 10 weeks in Term 2)   This unique module explores the notion of ‘magic’ within
some fundamental philosophical and historical issues relevant during the
Renaissance. The notion of Magic, the practice of prophecy and divination and
its condemnation by the Church, will be discussed through the works of Marsilio
Ficino, Giordano Bruno, Tommaso Campanella and Pico della Mirandola.Module taught by Dr Tiziana Provvidera.4) Living at the birth of the Renaissance, between
1350 and 1650(Wednesday, 10 weeks in Term 3) The Renaissance is traditionally considered to
be a moment of rebirth, but what was the experience of those living through the
period? This unique module will examine different perspectives on the
Renaissance, using literature and historical sources to build up a picture of
the transition from the late Middle Ages to the Renaissance. We will explore
the lives of those involved in printing, practising religion in confraternities
and convents, dealing with healthcare in hospitals and during epidemics, and debating
what the Italian language should look like in the Questione della Lingua.  Module taught by Dr Alexandra Lee.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				For further information regarding the course curriculum
please write to the convenor, Marta Niccolai, marta.niccolai@ucl.ac.uk and for
modules administration please contact the Italian Departmental office on 0207
6797784 or email: italian.office@ucl.ac.uk
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				  All classes take place between 6 and 8 pm and are located in the Italian department, 3rd floor, Foster Court  (Malet Place).    Magicians and Philosophers in the RenaissanceDay: Mondays from 6pm to 8pmDuration: 10 weeks, from January 8th 2018 to March 19th 2018Room: FC351  The Renaissance GeniusDay: Tuesdays from 6pm to 8pmDuration:  10 weeks, from January 9th 2018 to March 20th 2018Room: FC331  College Reading week: starts 12th February 2018 (no classes)From Cabiria to the present: key moments in Italian cinemaDay: Mondays from 6pm to 8pmDuration: 10 weeks, from 23rd April 2018 to 25th June 2018Room: FC351Living at the birth of the Renaissance, between 1350 and 1650Day: Wednesdays from 6pm to 8pmDuration: 10 weeks, from 25th of April to 27th of JuneRoom: FC351Introduction to Renaissance studies Day: Thursdays from 6m to 8pmDuration: 10 weeks, from 26th April 2018 to 28th June 2018Room: FC331
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				No formal entry qualification but a curiosity of Italy and
its culture is required. Basic knowledge of Italian can be beneficial but not
essential, should some handouts be in the original language.  Enrolment for each individual module is mandatory. We encourage you to enrol as early as possible by
completing the enrolment form and send it to the Made in Italy
convenor,  Dr Marta Niccolai at marta.niccolai@ucl.ac.uk.Module fee: £350Senior fee: £250UCL staff: £300Students: £200 To confirm your
enrolment together with your payment, we need to receive your enrolment form. Payment can be made online (Online store, see links below) or by
cheque. Please make cheques payable to ‘University College London’ and send to: Made In Italy
 Department of Italian
 School of European Languages, Culture &
Society
 University College London
 Gower Street
 London WC1E 6BTIntroduction to
Renaissance studies The Renaissance
Genius Magicians and
Philosophers in the RenaissanceFrom Kabiria to the present: key moments in
Italian cinemaLiving at the birth of the Renaissance, between
1350 and 1650
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Classes are taught through lectures, seminars, presentations and group works.Sessions are delivered in English with material provided in English and some in Italian.The reading material will be made available on the online course Moodle that will be made accessible to enrolled students.Made in Italy is convened by Dr Marta Niccolai.Modules will be taught by experts in their
field and you will have access to a wealth of knowledge, experience and
research.One 2 hour session a week
delivered over 5 weeks (10 hours in total) or 10 weeks (20 hours in total). For
further details see: Times, Dates and Locations.There is no formal assessment of
these modules. Outcomes are based on students’ own ability and progression.A certificate of attendance is issued with 70% attendance of a
course.If you have no formal qualification in the subject of Medieval and
Renaissance studies but you have a strong interest and have pursued the subject
independently, attendance to two or more Made in Italy courses on Medieval and
Renaissance studies will allow you to apply for an MA in Medieval Renaissance
StudiesPlease check their entry requirements under MA degree (Prospective
students) http://www.ucl.ac.uk/mars.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The calendar (including some special screenings) will
be posted on the film club's blog page. The movies will be in Italian with Italian or English 
subtitles and will be introduced by Dr Cristina Massaccesi (contact: 
c.massaccesi@ucl.ac.uk).
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Our staff are not just teachers: they are among the leading
researchers in many areas of Italian Studies, including linguistics, Dante, the
Renaissance, modern and contemporary literature, modern historical and cultural
studies, cinema, art and design history. UCL Italian students are the first
beneficiaries of all that expertise, through courses that reflect cutting-edge
thinking on a host of different subjects. Read more...Professor in Italian StudiesLecturer in Italian HistorySenior Lecturer in ItalianProfessor of Italian Cultural HistorySenior Teaching Fellow and Italian Language CoordinatorReader in Italian and Comparative LiteratureProfessor in Italian Literature and Writer in ResidenceSenior Teaching FellowProfessor in LinguisticsReader in Early Modern Italian StudiesReader in Italian StudiesAnd apply!
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Our staff are not just teachers: they are among the leading
researchers in many areas of Italian Studies, including linguistics, Dante, the
Renaissance, modern and contemporary literature, modern historical and cultural
studies, cinema, art and design history. UCL Italian students are the first
beneficiaries of all that expertise, through courses that reflect cutting-edge
thinking on a host of different subjects. Our
students quickly sense that they are in a hive of research activity. We hold
lively research seminars, open to all, with frequent contributions from
international scholars based in Italy, the rest of Europe, and the USA. We have
a high profile in the UK and world media. Several members of staff appear
regularly on radio and TV in the UK, Italy and beyond as experts in their
discipline; members of staff have also written frequently for the press.
Professor Robert Lumley has collaborated closely with Tate Modern and other
galleries, curating and writing on Italian contemporary art. In 2015, Dr
Catherine Keen and Professor John Took were involved in a series of events at
the Italian Cultural Institute to celebrate the 750th anniversary of Dante's
birth. In 2016, Professor John Dickie's history of Italian food was turned into
a six-part series on Italian television, which Prof Dickie presented himself.
We are the only UK Italian department with a writer-in-residence, Enrico
Palandri. Several members of staff have been awarded civil honours (the
equivalent of the British MBE or OBE) for their research by the President of
the Italian Republic.  UCL has an
unrivalled range of research resources on its doorstep. There is nowhere in
Britain that affords students such wonderful facilities for private study, and
such rich opportunities to work on first-hand Italian source material for their
essays and dissertations. UCL Library
is the largest and oldest college library in the University of London. It has
four special collections that include early Italian books: the Rotton and Ogden
collections (roughly 80,000 volumes), as well as the Castiglione and Dante
collections. All told, UCL library has a better holding of pre-twentieth
century Italian books than any other higher education institution in the UK. Students
also have access to the 14 million books in the nearby British Library (not
forgetting an astonishing 164 million other items, ranging from manuscripts to
sound recordings). As well as being a copyright library, entitled by law to a
copy of every book published in the UK, the British Library has the largest
collection of early printed books anywhere in the world. The number of Italian
publications is particularly large owing to influence of Antonio Panizzi,
founder of the library in its modern form and the first Professor of Italian at
UCL nearly two hundred years ago. The British
Newspaper Library at Colindale contains many Italian newspapers. The library of
the British Film Institute is a short walk away; it holds most of the major
Italian film periodicals published since the 1930s and many books on Italian
cinema. In addition, students have easy access to the libraries of the
Institute of Historical Research, the University of London in Senate House, the
Warburg Institute, the LSE, the Courtauld Institute, and the Wellcome Trust. 
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				All seminars are held on Wednesdays from 6pm in the Italian Seminar Room, Room 351, 
Third Floor, Foster Court, Malet Place, UCL, Gower Street, London, WC1E 
6BT (unless otherwise stated). View map (PDF)Maurizio Ferraris Learning from Post-Truth6.30 pm - Garwood Lecture Theatre, Room 9, First Floor, South Wing, UCL, Gower StreetMassimo Fusillo  Negative Empathy, Fear, Catharsis: An Intermedial Itinerary5.30pm - Foster Court 307Marco
Pescetelli         
Filologia e
restauro dei silent film Silvia
Costantino, Severino Antonelli, Claudia Durastanti      
 The Florentine Magazine:
exploring contemporary Italian writers David Lines               
 Teaching Language(s) at the University of
Bologna in the Sixteenth and Seventeenth Centuries: Practices and Debates Alessandro
Baronciani Comics, Sirens
and Self-Production  MODERN ITALIAN HISTORY SEMINAR SERIES - SPRING TERM 2016Conveners: Ilaria Favretto (Kingston), Maurizio Isabella (QMUL), Axel Körner (UCL), Carl Levy (Goldsmiths) All
meetings will take place on Wednesdays
at 5:30 in the Past &
Present Room (202) of the Institute of Historical Research, Senate House (Malet
St, London, WC1E 7HU), unless
otherwise stated. For updated information see http://www.history.ac.uk24 February 2016 - Book launch  Enrico dal Lago (NUI Galway), The Age of Lincoln and Cavour: Comparative Perspectives on Nineteenth-Century American and Italian Nation-Building. New York: Palgrave, 2015 William Lloyd Garrison and Giuseppe
Mazzini: Abolition, Democracy, and Radical Reform. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State
University Press, 2013Discussants: Eugenio Biagini (Cambridge), Nico Pizzolato (Middlesex)Chair: Axel Körner (UCL) 2 March 2016 - 3:00 pm - 7:30 pmInstitute of Advanced Studies, UCL, South Wing, Room G09, Gower Street, LondonVisual Storytelling. Examples from ItalyOrganized by the
AHRC-funded research project “Interdisciplinary Italy 1900-2020:
Interart/Intermedia” and hosted by the UCL Institute of Advanced Studies, this
multidisciplinary symposium explores the rich diversity of visual and verbal
art in contemporary Italy. We are delighted to welcome the illustrator and
painter Tullio Pericoli, one of Italy’s most distinguished contemporary
artists, who will speak, in conversation with Prof. Simona Corso (Roma Tre),
about how literature has shaped his artistic imagination. Interartistic
creativity will be envisaged as a constantly changing, dynamic field of
investigation, which has been, and continues to be, a driving force of modern
art. We will begin with a plenary lecture by the poet and scholar Prof. Jan
Baetens Professor of Cultural Studies at the University of Leuven and a leading
authority on literature and the visual arts. The afternoon will end with a
roundtable, chaired by Dr Florian Mussgnug (UCL), which will include
contributions by Dr Pierpaolo Antonello (Cambridge), Prof. Timothy Mathews
(UCL) and Dr Giuliana Pieri (Royal Holloway).This event is part of the project "Interdisciplinary Italy". You can find more information here: www.interdisciplinaryitaly.orgThe event is free, but please register at https://www.eventbrite.com/e/visual-storytelling-examples-from-italy-tickets-21079376984For further
information, please download the programme here or contact the organizer: f.mussgnug@ucl.ac.uk Francesca Pola (art curator)Arte Contemporanea a Villa Pisani Marco Mondini (ISIG-FBK)The War Life Experience in Italian First World War Autobiographical WritingSimone Brioni (SUNY) - Unfortunately due to unforseem circumstances this seminar has been cancelled.Race, Gender and the ‘Aliens’ in Luce D’Eramo’s Partiranno (1986) Ruth Ben-Ghiat (NYU) - Unfortunately this seminar has been cancelled.Italian Fascism’s Empire Cinema Francesca Medaglia (Lincei + BA)Allegory and Psychology in Multi-authorship WritingAlessandro GuettaItalian Jewish Intellectuals' usage of Hebrew and Italian in the late Renaissance Silvia Contarini
(Université Paris Ouest Nanterre La DéfenseLetteratura italiana e multiculturalitàDavide Dalmas (Università di Torino)Letteratura italiana e Riforma protestante: un
incontro impossibile?Claude Perrus (Université Sorbonne
Nouvelle – Paris 3)Come
leggere la Commedia di
Dante: la lezione dei poeti (Eliot, Mandelstam, e altri)Jane Tylus (New York University)Pastoral, Peasants, and Portraits of Rural Life in the Renaissance: Ruzante, the Rozzi, and Shakespeare Marie-José Tramuta (Université de Caen)Alberto Savinio e l'Europa: un artista pellegrino sotto il segno di MercurioGiulia Ammannati and Francesco Giancane
(Scuola Normale Superiore di Pisa)Le
epigrafi di Poggio Mirteto: la scoperta di una lauda di
inizio TrecentoThursday 16 October 2014Department of History of Art (20-21 Gordon Square, London  WC1H 0AG)Seminar Room 36pmAra H. Merjian (New York University)Painting in Chains: Giorgio de Chirico’s Willful
ClaustrophiliaPart of the History of Art research seminars, held in collaboration with the Italian Department.Alessandra Montalbano (Scuola Normale Superiore di Pisa)Combating Ransom Kidnapping in Modern Italy:
Magistrates, Memoirs, Media Thursday 23 October 2014,3pm - 6pmUCL Chandler House, 2 Wakefield Street, London, WC1N 1PF, Room 118Lampedusa: Migratory Space, Memory and Aesthetics  Luca Baldoni (James Madison University) and Flaviano Pisanelli (Montpellier III - Paul Valéry)Poesia e omosessualità nel Novecento italiano Jessica Goethals (Villa I Tatti, Harvard University)From the Grotesque to the Galilean: Margherita
Costa and the Spectacle of Baroque Female DramaturgyLucia Rinaldi (UCL)The Many Lives of Inspector MontalbanoItalian Merchants Abroad and the Use of Foreign Languages, 14th-16th CenturiesFrancesco Guidi-Bruscoli (University of Florence)Il fantastico femminile: una questione di genereBeatrice Manetti (University of Turin)Traumi e vittime: introduzione alla narrativa italiana contemporaneaDaniele Giglioli (University of Bergamo) in conversation with Stefano JossaIn collaboration with Royal HollowayIl "New Italian Realism": genesi, caratteri, dibattito (2008-2013)  Davide Luglio
(Université Paris-Sorbonne)L'ermetismo: una generazione Anna Dolfi (University of
Florence)"Porte aperte": la mafia, il fascismo e la polizia negli anni TrentaManoela PattiCentre Stage Series: Rehearsing TranslationChaired by Eva Daníčková (Dramaturgs’ Network)Centre Stage Series: Commedia dell’Arte: From Street to Salon Oliver Crick (Artistic Director of The Fabulous
Old Spot Theatre Company)Chaired
by Chris Stamatakis (UCL)Centre Stage Series: Not Pierrot, More Pirandello! Facilitated by Charlotte CoxChaired
by Enza De Francisci (UCL)Centre Stage Series: Homage to Franca Rame: Actress, Writer, ActivistLed by Joseph Farrell (University of
Strathclyde)Chaired
by Marta Niccolai (UCL)Silvano Montaldo (University of Turin)Many
 Western museums in recent decades have had to deal with the question of
 the return of human remains (ancestral bones, heads and body parts) 
contained in their collections. This talk reconstructs the court case 
and media coverage surrounding the skull of Giuseppe Villella, displayed
 in the Lombroso Museum of the University of Turin. Villella was a petty
 thief, imprisoned in Pavia where he died, but his skull became famous 
in the scientific community due to its connection to Lombroso’s 
criminological theory. It was by studying this particular skull, in 
1870, that Lombroso first thought he identified the signs of a 
particular conformation of the brain that caused criminal behaviour. 
That moment of ‘discovery’ was the start not only of a criminological 
theory, but of one of the first hypothesis about the relationship 
between behaviour and biology. A controversial court case, triggered by 
Italian politicians eager to label the Museum as racist, now threatens 
the continued presence of the skull in the museum. This talk highlights 
the value of this specimen for the history of science, the positions of 
the main protagonists of the skull controversy and the risks that 
historical revisionism poses to the future of cultural heritage.Giuseppe Sangirardi (Université de Bourgogne)From
 Romantic idealism to postmodernism, from Hegel to Calvino, irony has 
always been seen as the key for interpreting Ludovico Ariosto’s Orlando 
furioso and has functioned as the base of a literary paradigm that 
supposedly allows for a comprehensive understanding of the multiple 
layers of meaning of this Renaissance masterpiece. However, despite – or
 perhaps thanks to – its success, this idea is not guileless. In fact, 
there are different kinds of irony in the Furioso, not only because 
Ariosto’s models for irony were various, but also because many have been
 the critical perspectives from which this idea has been elaborated on. 
Combining reception theory and textual philology, this talk outlines the
 critical panorama of Ariosto’s irony and illustrates some of its most 
unusual landscapes.Please note: this talk will be in Italian.Chaired by Professor Marina Warner and performed by Marco GambinoThe School of Sons is
 a desperate and profoundly human soliloquy, of Stefano Pirandello, the 
eldest son of Luigi Pirandello. Through these words, spoken by a son, 
his father’s total victim, we catch the most subtle intimacies of a 
family, so deeply tragic in character as to become paradoxically 
umoristico – as well as all the disgust and nausea of a son who was 
plagiarised and mocked. Luigi Pirandello’s love for his children was so 
unhealthy that they seemed to him creatures in every way like the 
characters of his plays: uncertain figures whom he loathed and 
ridiculed, as he probably also did himself. We only have to read a few 
lines by Stefano Pirandello (he was also a playwright who modestly 
called himself Landi) to understand the suffering and self-abasement of 
this man. ‘Death is not possible for me.  Nor is birth.  Truly, we’re 
here, as if we were forever born, as if we were forever alive’.In
 the working-class areas of Naples, private ceremonies are a thriving 
business. This is one of the few areas in the world where the stars are 
not the internationally-renowned ones promoted by MTV but are home-grown
 singers. At wedding parties, which may last over twelve hours, the 
performers enthral relatives and friends of the hosts throughout a 
gargantuan banquet. Weddings, first communions, christenings, birthdays 
and neighbourhood celebrations form the background to Le Coccinelleshows that entertain an audience consumed with curiosity. Children are entranced and the women are moved by the show of Le Coccinelle.
 The ties that bind the women with the Neapolitan transsexuals are 
ancient and deep and except for ceremonies, only women are allowed to 
watch their performances. In restaurant dining rooms decked out in fake 
Baroque style, Le Coccinelle sing and perform their acts. They 
tell stories of prostitution, of the judgement by Naples’s upper class, 
of the hypocrisy of their clients; but they also recount their 
friendships with the women of the back streets and the Neapolitans’ 
joyous way of life.The director Emanuela Pirelli 
is a young photographer and filmmaker from Naples. She graduated at the 
Rome’s Institute of Photography and Communication and did photo 
reportage work for magazines and agencies in Naples, Rome, Milan, 
Amsterdam and Berlin. In 2002 she attended the Documentary School by 
Doc/it and Zelig. Since then she has worked as camera operator and 
assistant director for documentaries, news and TV formats for both 
Italian and foreign productions. She directed behind the scenes, arts 
films and filmed for several documentaries such as Winners and Losers 
(2007) by Lech Kowalsky.The film (in Italian 
with English subtitles) will be introduced by Nicola G. Ibba and will be
 followed by a Q&A with the director. When it comes to freedom of the press, Italy ranks 57th in the
world according to Reporters sans Frontières. Yet Italian citizens have access
to many respected national newspapers, seven TV channels, a lively scene of
information websites, a multiplicity of newswires and radios, and, possibly,
more political talk shows than most other countries. How can such a situation be
considered as being only ‘partly free’? With a media tycoon having run the
country for the majority of the last 20 years, Italian journalism has seen its
reputation dragged through the mire. Will it be restored now that Berlusconi’s
power is declining? How is the country’s media landscape coping with the
ongoing hard economic crisis? Tracing an history of journalism it Italy and
analysing the way reporters currently operate, the two speakers will try to
give an answer to these questions.John Lloyd
 is a
Contributing Editor for the Financial
Times, Director of Journalism at the Reuters Institute for the Study of
Journalism, and a columnist for La
Repubblica of Rome. At the Financial Times, he has been
Labour Editor, Industrial Editor, East European Editor and Moscow Bureau
 Chief.
In 2003 he launched the FT
Magazinewhich he edited until 2005. He is chairman of the Advisory Board
 of
the Moscow School of Civic Enlightenment. John Lloyd has won awards as 
Journalist of the Year,Specialist
Writer of the Year and the David Watt Prize. He has been
editor of The New Statesman in the 1980s and of Time Out in the 1970s. 
He has worked for Weekend World, the London Programme (LWT) and for 
Independent Radio News.
His books include Eserciti di
carta, an insightful analysis of journalism in Italy written with
Ferdinando Giugliano. Cristina Marconi is an
Italian freelance journalist and former fellow at the Reuters Institute for the
Study of Journalism in Oxford. She spent six years in Brussels as a correspondent
for Italian media and, before that, she worked in Rome as a financial reporter
for a newswire. A graduate in Philosophy at the Scuola Normale Superiore in
Pisa, she is currently based in London and is working on two projects on the
European Union: a research on the press coverage of the debt crisis and a
documentary about the future of the EU.In conversation with Dr Emanuela Tandello (University of
Oxford)From August to November 2013, the National Theatre staged
Pirandello’s Liolà in a new version by Tanya Ronder, directed by Richard Eyre.
The lead actor, Rory Keenan, will discuss how it felt to perform Liolà,
offering an ‘inside’ view of this new staging which combines the Irish world of
the actors with the Sicilian world of the characters. The session will be
concluded with a reading by the actor of an extract from Pirandello’s work.Andrea Del Corno (London Library)This talk addresses Italian political journalism in London during the years 1840-1859, primarily focusing on four journals (Apostolato Popolare, Il Pellegrino, L’Educatore and Pensiero ed Azione) run
 by Giuseppe Mazzini (1805-1872), the Italian activist whose advocacy 
for national independence and democracy was inspirational for the 1861 
Unification of Italy.  Circumstances surrounding the printing and 
circulation of these journals have not yet been fully investigated. 
 This talk scrutinises their dissemination and political significance 
within the diffusion of Italian and, more widely, foreign-language 
printed materials in Victorian London.  Prominent attention is given to a
 rare, if not unique, print-run of Il Pellegrino, of which, until
 recently, no copies were known to be extant.  Mazzini’s political 
journals represent an outstanding and prime example of Italian exile 
culture and foreign-language publication in nineteenth-century London.Luca VulloAn
 invigorating and informative journey through the art of gesticulation, 
led by film director, Luca Vullo. The director will introduce his 
docu-film, La voce del corpo, and offer a behind-the-scenes discussion 
on his innovative work following the 60-minute screening. A unique 
opportunity to learn how to gesticulate and ‘speak’ Italian through the 
particular code of body language.Marco GambinoTalkingestures
 is a pilot to a larger project on body language. The expressive 
Sicilians have stereotypically been characterized a population which 
relies heavily on gesticulation. To exemplify the importance of 
gestures, the actor, Marco Gambino, with the support of film director, 
Luca Vullo, will present two versions of the same monologue. The first 
will see the actor perform the monologue through mime, alongside a video
 and musical support. In the second, Gambino will present the same 
monologue this time including the ‘missing’ words, and, in comparing the
 two different ways of communicating, will strengthen the value of 
talkingestures.Annamaria Giusti (Opificio delle Pietre Dure, Florence)This lecture illustrated the various aspects and phases of the restoration of Lorenzo
Ghiberti’s Gates of Paradise, the Florentine Renaissance masterpiece
constructed between 1425 and 1452 that once adorned the east entrance to the
Baptistery in Florence. A monumental set of gilded bronze doors standing at
just over five metres tall and containing scenes from the Old Testament, the
Gates of Paradise were in poor shape after more than five centuries, blackened
by wind, weather, and pollution – not to mention the catastrophic flooding of
Florence in 1966. The damage was caused by excessive humidity which allowed
salts to crystallise on the bronze and corrode small holes in the surface.
Removed in 1990, when replicas were installed on the Baptistery’s hinges, the
sculpted doors underwent a long period of restoration (more than two decades),
in which a nitrogen atmosphere was used to protect them. Today, installed in
their own room at the Museo dell’Opera del Duomo in Florence, the Gates of
Paradise are back on display in a protective case that guarantees a constant
level of humidity at 20% and filters the air in the casing, removing dust and
harmful gases.Annamaria Giusti is the
Director of the Opificio delle Pietre Dure, one of the foremost conservation
institutes in the world, and directed the conservation work that restored the
Gates of Paradise to their former glory.Chaired by: Beatrice SicaMahnaz Yousefzadeh (New York University)The
 city of Florence inaugurated her newly built galley system in 1422, 
sending two ambassadors to Cairo to visit the Mamluk Sultan Barsbay. 
This lecture offered a close reading of the diary of one ambassador, 
Felice Brancacci, a prominent Florentine silk merchant and the patron of
 Masaccio’s iconic frescoes in the Brancacci Chapel of the Church of 
Santa Maria del Carmine in Florence.  The diary opened the way for an 
investigation into 15th-century cultural encounters in the 
Mediterranean, disclosing the nature of the relationship between Muslim 
and Christian capital cities. The examination of the chronicle revealed 
the ways in which Felice’s personal experiences as merchant, ambassador,
 visitor, and Christian guest in Egypt led not only to patronage, but 
also yielded the actual themes and iconography of Masaccio’s iconic 
fresco, “Tribute Money,” which was commissioned immediately upon 
Brancacci’s return from Egypt.  The lecture’s analysis of Brancacci’s 
cross-cultural maritime experience hence provideed important insights 
into the meaning of Masaccio’s enigmatic work.Chaired by: Beatrice SicaGraziella Parati (Dartmouth College)Igiaba
 Scego’s attempt to remap Rome according to a familial memory of Somalia
 sets up an interesting framework in spatial thinking that defines an 
“other’s” approach to urban space.This event was in collaboration with the UCL Centre for Intercultural StudiesChaired by: Federica MazzaraKenneth P Clarke (University of York)With its highly complex moral landscape, the Decameron is an unusual source for Renaissance wedding chests or cassoni, which usually emphasize female virtues and obedience. Indeed, the iconography of these cassoni was mostly drawn from Latin sources such as works by Plutarch or Suetonius and the Decameron was much less frequently deployed. This talk examined some of the surviving cassoni depicting scenes from the Decameron. It looked in particular at Griselda (Dec X 10) and Zinevra (Dec II 9), in two sets of highly unusual cassoni, exploring the ways in which these women are represented and how their virtue is reinterpreted and repackaged for its audience.This
 seminar formed part of a series of medieval Italian events planned at 
UCL that year, in connection with current research projects and with the
 2013 Boccaccio Septcentenary.Chaired by: Catherine KeenAs a student at the Slade School of Fine Art Lorenza Mazzetti made her first film K based on Kafka’s Metamorphosis,
 featuring fellow student Michael Andrews as Gregor Samsa. With support 
from the Slade Professor William Coldstream and the director of the BFI,
 Denis Forman, Mazzetti was financed by the BFI Experimental Film Fund 
to make Together, with Eduardo Paolozzi and Michael Andrews as deaf-mute dockworkers in London’s bomb-damaged East End. Together
 was shown at the first Free Cinema event at the NFT in 1956.  With its 
credo of subjectivity, poetic freedom and the elevation of the everyday,
 Free Cinema brought Mazzetti into contact with figures such as Lindsay 
Anderson, Karel Reisz, Tony Richardson, Walter Lassally and John 
Fletcher. In its pronounced rejection of theatrical cinematic 
conventions, Free Cinema’s relationship with Italian neorealism, radical
 British documentary and ‘Kitchen Sink’ drama, situates it at a 
contested but fascinating point within post–war British culture. As an 
Italian woman in a predominantly male domain, working at the cusp of the
 profound social and cultural shifts later associated with the 1960’s, 
Mazzetti offers unique insights into the creative and intellectual 
ambitions of the Free Cinema Movement in Britain.Mazzetti returned to Italy in 1956 where she made documentary films and wrote two novels. Her 1961 novel Il Cielo Cade
 (The Sky Falls,) based on her traumatic childhood wartime experiences, 
was made into the 2000 film directed by Andrea and Antonio Frazzi, 
starring Isabella Rossellini. She worked collaboratively for many years 
in puppet theatre and continues to paint prolifically. London Diaries
 – Mazzetti’s account of her time in England will be published by 
Sellario in Italy later this year. She lives and works in Rome.Chaired by: Cristina MassaccesiAlessandra Cerreti (Direzione Distrettuale Antimafia, Reggio Calabria)Alessandra
 Cerreti fa parte della Direzione Distrettuale Antimafia di Reggio 
Calabria, dove si occupa della ’ndrangheta. È titolare di procedimenti 
che hanno condotto a centinaia di arresti di appartenenti a questa 
organizzazione mafiosa e alla cattura di pericolosi latitanti. Ha 
chiesto e ottenuto il sequestro dei beni di componenti o prestanomi 
delle cosche mafiose per un totale di 220 milioni di Euro. Ha, infine, 
ottenuto e gestito la prima collaborazione con la giustizia di una donna
 di ’ndrangheta, Giuseppina Pesce.Chaired by: John DickieSarah Dunant and Professor Lisa JardineSarah
 Dunant and Professor Lisa Jardine discussed the extent to which 
historical fiction has, over the last twenty
years, become an ambassador for academic historical writing. This 
discussion considered the publication of Sarah Dunant's novel set in
Renaissance Italy and centred on the Borgia, Blood and Beauty.Sarah Dunant is the international bestselling author of
the novels The Birth of Venus, In the Company of the Courtesan and Sacred
Hearts, all set in Renaissance Italy. Sarah Dunant is also a broadcaster and
critic. She was a founding vice patron of the Orange Prize for women's fiction
and sits on the editorial board of the Royal Academy magazine.Lisa Jardine CBE is Professor of Renaissance Studies at
University College London. Professor Jardine is Director of the Centre for
Humanities Interdisciplinary Research Projects and Director of the Centre for
Editing Lives and Letters. She is a fellow of the Royal Historical Society and
an Honorary Fellow of King's College, Cambridge and Jesus College, Cambridge.
She has published extensively on the Renaissance including works on Bacon,
Shakespeare and Erasmus.Chaired by: Timothy DemetrisJeffrey Schnapp (Harvard University)Guido Mazzoni (University of Siena)Between the middle of the sixteenth century and the end of the
eighteenth, the method of representing social and moral life in European novels
changed completely. While in the last two centuries the novel has become the
genre in which any kind of story can be narrated in any manner, until the
second half of the eighteenth century the representation of reality in novels
had to follow strict rules that were implicitly assumed by both readers and
writers. Such were, for example, the Platonic-Christian obligation to moralize
stories and heroes, showing the vices punished and the virtues rewarded, and
the rule of differentiating writing styles according to the social classes that
were represented. What we call today "modern novel" stems precisely
from overcoming these rules and asuumptions. The genre born from that
metamorphosis brough a new vision of the world.John Foot (UCL)This lecture will look at the origins of radical psychiatry in Italy, a
movement which took control of asylums in order to close them down, and which
began in Gorizia, on the border with Yugoslavia, in 1961. The talk will discuss
how a small group of psychiatrists were able to link up with the ideas and
movements of 1968, and how this movement has been analysed and mythologised in
subsequent years.Simone Brioni (University of Warwick)Who are you? In an attempt to give an answer to this apparently simple
question, Ribka Sibhatu, Italian writer and essayist of Eritrean origin,
presents the history of her homeland in her current city, Rome. In her
imaginary trip backwards through her memories, she is accompanied by a young
Italian man, who shares her same interest in exploring the relationship between
identity and territory. Ribka’s own personal story intersects powerfully with
the stories of the Eritrean diaspora, which not only does it show the fault
traces that colonialism has left behind in her country, but also demonstrates
how the perception of immigration in Italy has been profoundly influenced by an
apparent failure in the process of decolonization in Italian collective memory.
Aulò brings into question the concept of confine, not only in geographical, but
also in cultural and identitarian terms.Robert Gordon (University of Cambridge)in conversation with the author, presents:Opened in 1870, Le Nuove was one of Italy’s first
panoptical prisons. During the Second World War it was occupied by the Nazis,
who executed and deported anti-Fascist and Jewish prisoners held there. In the
1970s it housed left-wing ‘terrorists,’ who spearheaded violent riots that
spread to prisons across Italy and intimidated and assassinated prison staff.
When Le Nuove finally closed down in October 2003, the
memories of the tragic events that occurred there became obstacles to its
demolition. This book examines the cultural memory of Le Nuove via
oral history, archival research and the material traces left within the
building itself to discuss memory, heritage and the legacy of political
violence in contemporary Italy.Discutono: Stefano Jossa (Royal Holloway) e Gabriele Pedullà (Universita' degli Studi di Roma Tre).Si dice spesso che la letteratura è un viaggio, nello spazio come nel tempo. Ma fino ad ora, nessuno aveva mai provato a scriverne la storia con gli strumenti del viaggiatore (di ieri o di oggi): la carta geografica, la guida artistica, la mappa topografica, se non proprio il navigatore satellitare. In questa nuova «Grande Opera» – frutto del lavoro di quasi duecento specialisti provenienti dal mondo intero – la storia della letteratura italiana viene raccontata per la prima volta alla maniera di Albert Einstein: come un vertiginoso viaggio nello spaziotempo. Ci sono i grandi personaggi della nostra letteratura, ritratti, quasi fosse una fotografia «istantanea», in un momento decisivo della loro vita. Ci sono i libri fondamentali della nostra civiltà letteraria, restituiti alla ricchezza (e alla complessità) dell’epoca storica in cui vennero prodotti. E ci sono – riconoscibili come mai prima d’ora – i luoghi di un’Italia letteraria che si estende ben oltre i limiti dello stivale: le città e le strade, gli edifici e le case, i panorami e i paesaggi, negli otto secoli che separano il 1200 dal Duemila. Lunghi intrecci e brevi istanti di svolta. Una mappa della fantasia italiana.Chair: Robert Lumley (UCL)Marco Assennato was born in Palermo in 1978. He has lived in Paris since 2009. He graduated in philosophy, with a thesis on Spinoza. His main field of research is the relationship between politics and architecture. He is currently doing a PhD at ENSA, Paris-Malaquais, working on a research project on Manfredo Tafuri.International Conference with the support of the UCL School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS) and the UCL Faculty Institute of Graduate Studies (FIGS)Organizers:  Florian Mussgnug (UCL) and  Emanuela Patti (UCL)Confirmed Speakers:Emanuela Patti (UCL, Cagliari): Remediating collective identities, narratives and myths in literature in the new media contextJakob Stoutgaard–Nielsen (UCL) Authorship in the digital eraClaudia Boscolo (Royal Holloway) Transmedia storytelling and contemporary Italian Fiction: An Overview Tommaso Pincio (writer and artist, Rome)Cristina Massaccesi (UCL) Transmedial Contamination in Italian Graphic NarrativesOtto Gabos (Graphic Novelist)Federica Chiocchetti (UCL)  Literature and photography countering the mimetic: a theoretical exploration.Daniele Salerno (University of Bologna)On June 27th 1980, an aircraft en route from Bologna to Palermo plunged into the Tyrrhenian Sea off the island of Ustica, near Sicily. Eighty-one people died. From 1984 to 1999, three different judges investigated the case. According to the most recent sentence, the aircraft was probably shot down by a missile, launched by a warplane belonging to an unknown NATO country.The main aim of this research (in progress) is to analyse the shaping of the public memory of this event, which found its pivotal moment in the construction of the Museum for the Memory of Ustica in Bologna. I argue that this process can be divided in three periods: the period of latency (1980-1986); the period of recognition of the massacre (1990s to early 2000s); and the years of conflicting memories (which lasts up to the present and is ongoing). These conflicts link up to a dual and interconnected tendency in the shaping of the Italian public memory of those years (the so called ‘Years of Lead’): the inability of State institutions to create an acceptable collective version of this event, and the victims’ narratives which have been pivotal in legitimising different versions of the past.Filippo La Porta (Rome) Filippo La Porta is a one of Italy’s leading literary critics. He regularly writes for Corriere della sera, Il Messaggero, and Sole24Ore. Recent publications include Maestri irregolari (2007, winner of the Premio De Lollis); Dizionario della critica militante (2007, with Giuseppe Leonelli), Uno sguardo sulla città (2010) and Meno letteratura, per favore (2010).Timothy Demetris (UCL) In the summer of 1472 Pope Sixtus IV launched a naval campaign against the Turks with Cardinal Oliviero Carafa as commander of the papal fleet. This military enterprise has received little attention from scholars. My paper will consider how it may not only inform us of Sixtus IV's early policy regarding the Turks but also provide context for his later engagement with Mehmed II's forces during the capture and liberation of Otranto in 1480-1481. I shall present a historical account of Cardinal Carafa's campaign using both modern and contemporary sources. I shall then examine the lives of those individuals involved and present the known portraits we have of them and visual representations of the campaign itself.Margaret Rose (University of Milan)Prof. Maggie Rose teaches British Theatre Studies at Milan State University. A writer, translator and dramaturge, she spends part of the year in the UK for her writing and research. She is a member of Playwrights Studio Scotland and the Scottish Association of Playwrights. Her stage and radio plays, reflecting her interest in issues of migration and multiculturalism as well as reworkings of Shakespeare, have been produced in the UK and Italy. Her stage translations have been performed in the UK, America and Italy. With Salvatore Cabras, she has co-translated Edward Bond’s Warplays, directed by Luca Ronconi and Alan Bennett’s The History Plays directed by Elio de Capitani e F.Bruni. Alice, an adaptation of Alice in Wonderland ran at Milan’s Piccolo Teatro in 2009 and 2010. She has co-created and co-directed festival-symposiums such as Scotsfest, Scambiare and Scottish Italian Connections and Identities. In her lecture, she will be considering various plays (Tally’s Blood, Six Months Here Six Months There, Shattered Head), documentaries (Dangerous Characters) and autobiographies, dealing with a crucial moment in history: June 1940, when Benito Mussolini declared war on Great Britain and France, and when many Italians living in the UK suddenly found themselves labelled as “enemy aliens”.Suzanne Stewart-Steinberg (Brown University) Prof. Stewart-Steinberg’s widely acclaimed study of modern Italian identity in the post-Unification period, The Pinocchio Effect: On Making Italians, 1860-1930(University of Chicago Press, 2007) was awarded the Aldo and Jeanne Scaglione Prize for Best Manuscript in Italian Studies by the Modern Language Association. This event was hosted jointly with the IHR Modern Italian History Seminar.Chiara Caprì, one of the founders of the Sicilian anti-extortion organizationAddiopizzo, will speak about her new book on Libero Grassi, the Palermo entrepreneur murdered for refusing to pay protection money.Enza de Francisci (UCL)This seminar compares Verga’s and Pirandello’s method of transposing a selection of short stories to the stage; questioning what happens when authorial intervention is withdrawn and the two writers rely on dialogue and assessing how the modifications introduced to the theatrical versions affect the portrayal of women. It will be suggested that although the female protagonists take a subsidiary position in the triangular relationship they are involved in, they nevertheless dominate both narrative and dramatic plots.Silvia Sfligiotti (Alizarina Studio – Milan)Annelys de Vet (Sandberg Institute Amsterdam)Annelies Vaneycken (Trans-ID Brussels)The seminar will feature a presentation by Silvia Sfligiotti of Alizarina Studio Milan on the role of the user in the design process – should designers work with, for or against the users? Annelys de Vet of the Sandberg Institute Amsterdam and Annelies Vaneycken of Trans-ID Brussels will also present on their recent works, in which visual communication is used as a tool to chart and highlight tensions and cleavages in culture and society. The seminar will end with an open round table discussion with the participation of Ken Garland and Richard Hollis.Elettra Carbone (UCL)For many Norwegians the Italian Risorgimento was seen as an inspiration, a symbol of freedom. Besides being a topical subject, especially in newspapers and magazines, the Risorgimento struggle was represented in literary works by famous Norwegian authors. How was this period of the Italian history represented before and after Norway’s independence in 1905?Simone Brioni (Warwick)The director and the writer Kaha Mohamed Aden will be present.Synopsis: Kaha Mohamed Aden narrates her memories of Mogadishu, her birth city, and reconstruct its story in Pavia, where she currently lives. The capital of Somalia is divided into five streets, which corresponds to different histoica periods. The fourth street symbolizes the actuality of civil war. This negates the preceding periods and makes it necessary to hope for the 'fifth street'. The film has English subtitles.Georgia Panteli (UCL)The seminar focuses on postmodern retellings of Pinocchio, and these include graphic  retellings as well as some examples of posthuman Pinocchios. In my talk I will explain how I connect Pinocchio to cyborgs, following the literary history of the animate/inanimate  archetype, of which Pinocchio is a vital part. I will also refer in more detail to the bande dessinée that won the Fauve d'Or prize in 2009, 'Pinocchio' by Winshluss. Maria Coduri (UCL) The aim of this seminar is to show different trends of acting and directing Shakespeare's plays in Italy from the performances of the "great actors" of mid-nineteenth century to the first stagings of the "teatro di regia" (director's theatre).Sebastiano Caroni (UCL) The aim of the presentation is threefold. Firstly, to situate Eco's relationship with structuralist method and approach as a formative moment in Eco's intellectual trajectory. Secondly, the presentation discusses Eco's ideas of interpretation against the background of Eco's critique of structuralism. Thirdly, it shows how Eco's ideas of interpretation can be the starting point to explore the intellectual norms and practices that sustain the ethic of academic work.Presented by author Yosefa Loshitzky (East London University)Yosefa Loshitzky challenges the utopian notion of a post-national "New Europe" by focusing on the waves of migrants and refugees that some view as a potential threat to European identity, a concern heightened by the rhetoric of the war on terror, the London Underground bombings, and the riots in Paris's banlieues. Opening a cinematic window onto this struggle, Loshitzky determines patterns in the representation and negotiation of European identity in several European films from the late 20th and early 21st centuries, including Bernardo Bertolucci's Besieged, Stephen Frears’s Dirty Pretty Things, Mathieu Kassovitz's La Haine, and Michael Winterbottom's In This World, Code 46, and The Road to Guantanamo.Fabio Camilletti (University of Warwick)The seminar will explore some of the methodological challenges emerged in the course of my research on the nineteenth-century metamorphoses of Dante’s Vita Nova. More specifically, by focusing on some re-elaborations of the episode of the 'woman at the window' – whose ambiguities make of it a veritable crux in Dantean philology - I will show how it is used as a frame in which the tensions of nineteenth-century desire are articulated.Evelyn Ferraro (Brown University)Migrants’ complex identities defy any rigid cultural classifications because of the liminal, or in-between, positions that migrant subjects inhabit. In this seminar, the spatial concept of being on the threshold will primarily be adopted to discuss contemporary literary and visual representations of the Italian migratory experience to North America vis-à-vis Italian national identity. In addition, the threshold will provide a theoretical tool to launch a preliminary reflection on Italy’s own liminality within the Mediterranean.Chris Adams (Estorick Collection of Modern Italian Art)Unlike Fauvism or Cubism, Futurism was not simply a painterly technique but a way of life. This paper considers if its holistic ambition was a distinctively Italian phenomenon - the movement emerging in the home of a world religion and the birthplace of modern totalitarianism - and if Futurism's continuation in the post-war period was motivated as much by the desire to counter a newfound cultural ‘agnosticism’ as by any aesthetic differences.Paolo Favero (Lisbon University Institute)Moving among historical material and contemporary debates on xenophobia and war, his seminar will explore the self-representation "Italiani Brava Gente", an image claiming the intrinsic goodness of the Italian people. Functioning as an ideological laundry for reformulating and then setting aside disquieting moments of national shame, "Italiani Brava gente" is central to the construction of  a modern Italian identity.Giuseppe A. Camerino (Università del Salento)Ampio panorama della caratteristiche dei maggiori scrittori triestini e giuliani tra l'Otto e il Novecento, tra attrazione della cultura viennese e austroungarica e richiamo della letteratura italiani nelo stesso periodo. Un'analisi che tocca i modi molto diversi e pur complementari con cui autori come Svevo, Saba, Slataper e Michelstaedter afrontano una complessa e irripetibile condizione di frontiera con tutti i connessi problemi linguistici, religiosi, filosofici e culturali in genere che una realtà del genere, per certi vesi altamente cosmopolita, richiedeva.Benedetta Tobagi (UCL) presentas her book: "Come mi batte forte il tuo cuore"Benedetta Tobagi presents her book dedicated to her father, Walter Tobagi, a "Corriere della Sera" journalist, murdered by leftist extremists in 1980.A film by Nick Mai (London Metropolitan University)followed by a discussion with the directorNORMAL is made of the combined interviews with four migrants (2 men, 2 women) working in the global sex industry, as agents and workers, respectively. The four characters explain how they came to see their involvement in the sex industry as NORMAL and how their notion of normality evolved with their life experiences. The film lasts 37 minutes.The actors were present.Federico Faloppa (University of Reading)Statistics say that Italy has become a multi-ethnic and multi-cultural contry. But the representation of migrants and ethnic groups in the Italian press has not changed much in the last 20 years, and derogatory labels and misreprsentations are far from being a relic of the past. Through the analysis of examples taken from newspapers and magazines, the paper will try to highlght a few linguistic elements - from lexicon to rhetoric - which seem to be part of an enduring strategy to construct and isolate 'otherness' linguistically. Laura Pariani (UCL)“Milano è una selva oscura”: La scrittura di Laura Pariani tra Dante e la tradizione lombarda.Fabio Cuzzola (Historian and Screenwriter) in conversation with John Dickie (UCL)Luciano Segreto (University of Florence)Giuliana Pieri (Royal Holloway University)David Forgacs (UCL)Ian Thomson (Royal Literary Fund Fellow, UCL)Guido Bonsaver (Oxford)Paola Nasti (University of Reading)“Narratives of Desire: biblical paradigms and vernacular actualizations”Heather Webb (Ohio State / CRASSH) “Dante's Cardiocentrism”Salvatore Lupo (University of Palermo) in conversation with John Dickie (UCL)Matteo Colombi (Leipzig) “Trieste: Everybody’s Colony?”Katia Pizzi (IGRS) “Trieste: A Dissident Port”Andrea Villarini (University of Siena)Sorry, this Silva Document is not viewable.  Research Seminars
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Alhambra PanoramicEstablished in 1828 by Antonio Alcalá
Galiano, the Department of Spanish, Portuguese & Latin American Studies was
one of the first in the UK and remains today a vibrant centre of academic
excellence. Housed in the School of European Languages, Culture & Society, the Department covers
all major areas of Hispanic and Lusophone literature, culture, history and
film. We run an annual documentary filmmaking summer school in Cuba, host vibrant
research seminars and cultural events, and sponsor a documentary film-making
project, the highly-acclaimed Rio Film School, in Rio de Janeiro.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				  The centre aims to encourage research on the life and work 
of the 
Peruvian poet, César Vallejo (1892-1938), as well as the larger remit of
 Peruvian literature and culture.  Founded at UCL on 6th  January 2003, 
the centre was inaugurated at Canning House on 30th September 2003 
by the then Peruvian Ambassador, Armando Lecaros-de-Cossío.  The 
founder-director is Professor Stephen M. Hart.  Funded by the British Academy, the project's principal aim is to provide a new 
biography of Santa Rosa de Lima (1586-1617) by drawing on the archives 
relating to Santa Rosa's beatification and canonisation held at the 
Secret Archive in the Vatican, in the Monasterio de Santa Rosa de Santa 
Maria and the Archivo Arzobispal, the latter two in Lima.The London Centre of César Vallejo Studies operates within a research network consisting of other Institutes such as: The centre has funded the publication of the following books: The has funded the production of several short films
 which trace the connections between film, poetry and Latin American 
culture: Read Pedros Granados' review: 'Stumbling Between Several Enemies?'  The Centre of César Vallejo Studies has a specialist research library on
 the work of César Vallejo which may be consulted by UCL students. Professor Stephen M. Hart  stephen.malcolm.hart@ucl.ac.ukT: 020 7679 3036
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Cine Club took a break in 2016-17 but will be back in 2017. Please see below for past events. 2015-2016 
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				tel: 020 7679 3109 ext: 33109email: spanish.latinamerican@ucl.ac.ukDr Zoltan Biedermanntel: 020 7679 3559ext: 33559email: z.biedermann@ucl.ac.ukThird Floor, Foster Court, Malet Place, off Torrington Place, London, WC1E 6BT (Bloomsbury Campus - see UCL maps)
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Alhambra Panoramic The Department offers a BA degree in Spanish and Latin American Studies,
along with a wide range of combined degree programmes including, but not limited to Portuguese,
French, Italian, German, Dutch and Scandinavian languages, Management,
Philosophy, and History of Art.Click here to view a list of modules for the 2017/18 academic year. At postgraduate level, the department runs the Hispanic Studies pathway
on the MA in Language, Culture and History, and offers doctoral training in a variety
of specialisms.  While all members of staff are prominent researchers, they are also
devoted to innovative teaching practices in the classroom. We offer small-group
language teaching, personal tutoring, visits to museums and galleries, and
special film screenings and seminars. Members of the department have been nominated
regularly for teaching awards. Our staff are widely known for their expertise, and have published
scholarly articles and monographs on famous authors and film directors such as
Miguel de Cervantes, Gabriel García Márquez, Javier Marías, César Vallejo,
Julio Medem, Lucrecia Martel, Machado de Assis, Jorge Luis Borges and many
others. The department's strengths include early-modern and modern literature,
cultural studies, history, and film studies. We are proud to include
Corresponding Members of the Peruvian Academy of Language and of the
Academy of the Portuguese Marine. Members of the department have participated
in numerous successful bids for collaborative research grants in Spain,
Portugal and Latin America. There is also a strong tradition of funded PhD activities.
We hold thriving research seminars with contributions from renowned national
and international scholars. The department takes full advantage of London’s cultural facilities,
such as public institutions, museums, theatres, libraries and research centres.We also foster
collaborations with leading international institutions such as the British
Library, the Peruvian Academy of Language, the Universidad Complutense de
Madrid, the Universidade de Campinas, the Universidade Nova de Lisboa, the
Documentary Film School in Havana, and the Rio Film School in Rio de Janeiro. All undergraduate SELCS students on a four-year degree, in any department, spend their Year 3 abroad.  Affiliate
 students (those coming from other institutions to spend a period of 
study at UCL) will study alongside UCL and international students,
benefiting from UCL's world-class teaching system and renowned 
academics.  Students from other UK universities and members of the public are welcome 
to study individual undergraduate and postgraduate modules from any of 
the SELCS departments. 
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Research
seminars and events to be held during the coming term at the Department of
Spanish, Portuguese, and Latin American Studies (unless otherwise indicated) all
take place in Foster Court 314 @ 1pm:11/10/17:
Intersections of Poetry and PhilosophyErika
Martínez (University of Granada): 'El viaje místico en la poesía
latinoamericana y española del siglo XX: un acercamiento
transatlántico 'Respondent: Humberto
Núñez-Faraco27/10/17: Lecture and Launch of the Bulletin of
Spanish Visual Studies (NB: 6-9pm, Gustave Tuck)Distinguished
Professor Paul Julian Smith (CUNY): ‘Transmedia Spain/Queer Mexico: Cinema,
Television, and Visual Studies’1/11/17:
Gender and Mysticism Through the AgesCorinna
Deppner (University of Erfurt): ‘Mystic Traditions in the Modern Period: Gender & Femininity in the
work of Clarice
Lispector & Teresa of Ávila’Stephen Hart
(UCL): ‘Santa Rosa de Lima: Peru’s Unofficial Mystic’Chair: Tyler
Fisher22/11/17: New Developments in Periodical and Childhood
StudiesLauren Rea (University of Sheffield): ‘Billiken Under Perón: The Politics of Childhood
in Argentina’s Longest-Running Children’s Magazine’Respondent: Maria Chiara D’Argenio"Nation Branding in Latin America"Felix Lossio Chavez (Newcastle University)Discussant: Paulo Drinot (UCL) Contested Authority and
Indigenous Film Collaborations: Sey Arimaku (Pablo Mora, Colombia, 2012)
and O Mestre e o Divino (Tiago Campos, Brazil, 2013)'Charlotte Gleghorn (University of Edinburgh) "The generation game: Podemos, Javier
Cercas and the (im)possibility of progressive politics in Spain" Duncan Wheeler (University of Leeds)19th-century fusion food, irony and
portuguesismo: Júlio Dinis’s scrambled Portuguese eggs Hazel Robins (Cambridge)‘Gathering Food Narratives: Problems, Surprises, Questions’Rhian Atkin (Cardiff)Mário Peixoto: Vanguard Film and Literature in Brazil in the 1930sMaite Conde (Cambridge) and Felipe
Botelho Correa (King's College London)The Role of the Producer in Latin American Cinemas Sarah Barrow (University
of Lincoln)Francisco
Umbral: discurso antinacionalista   Guillermo Laín
Corona (UNED, Madrid) Desmembramiento de un cuerpo, deriva de un
país: El caso de Rosa Faundes CavieresAlia Trabucco (UCL) Alberto Fuguet y su novela Aeropuertos: Una lectura de la igualdad política de las mujeres en
la literatura chilena de la post-transición a la democraciaDenisse
Lazo (Oxford)Displacements, decenterings: novels without
frontier (FAPESP/ British Academy)  Dr. Jorge de Almeida,
Literary Theory and Comparative Literature, University of São Paulo Dr
Ross G. Forman, English and Comparative Literary Studies, Warwick Professor
Sandra Vasconcelos, Professor of English Literature, University of
São Paulo Dr. Tara Puri, Lecturer
in Victorian Literature, University of Bristol 
  Jason Wilson (UCL)Jorge Luis Borges and W. H. Hudson. I will glance at how much Borges
knew about W. H. Hudson. He first mentioned Hudson’s work in 1925 as ‘más
nuestras que una pena’ and last mentions him in 1952. He read him in English,
but saw him as part of the ‘tragedia gauchesca’. But what did he read and who
was Hudson?  Professor John Kraniauskas (Birkbeck) Narco-Culture, Narco-Accumulation  

In this presentation I will reflect upon a constellation of notions that
together will outline the parameters of a concept: 'narco-accumulation'. I will
do so with the help of cultural materials: novels and films from the USA and
Mexico such as Don Winslow's The Power of the Dog and The Cartel as well
'narco-novelas' by Victor Hugo Rascón Banda (Contrabando), Elmer Mendoza (Balas
de plata) and Yuri Herrera (Trabajos del reino). Crucial to such an endeavour
are the geopolitical and cultural - including literary - histories of the
Mexican and US hinter- and border-lands. It is particularly to the history of
this non-national 'territory' that I will turn to understand the narco-present. Dr Javier Muñoz Basols (University of
Oxford)
 Del inglesismo al anglicismo: huellas y testimonios de la
influencia de la lengua inglesa en la tradición hispánica En esta ponencia haremos una
incursión en el análisis de la influencia croslingüística léxica 
(Muñoz-Basols
y Salazar 2016) que de manera recíproca han ejercido el inglés y el 
español a
lo largo de la historia. Para ello nos detendremos en el cotejo de 
huellas textuales
y de testimonios que nos permiten entender parte de la génesis de las 
actitudes
hacia los anglicismos en la tradición hispánica. Toda esta información 
nos
servirá para abordar una de las preocupaciones de mayor urgencia de la
lexicografía actual, la revisión del tratamiento de los extranjerismos 
en el Diccionario de la lengua española (DRAE), y que fenómenos como la
globalización, el multilingüismo, o la emergencia de nuevas variedades
dialectales, como es el caso del español estadounidense, ponen 
constantemente
en tela de juicio.Professor Daniel Balderston (University of Pittsburg)This
talk focuses on two manuscripts of Borges's "El jardín de senderos que se
bifurcan" (The Garden of Forking Paths), and will show how Borges
composed, both in early stages in composition notebooks  and in
subsequent copies (still much corrected) which are closer to fair or
presentation copies. It is part of a book I have just finished, How Borges
Wrote. The talk will include a PowerPoint presentation with images of the two
manuscripts.Dr Francisco J Hernandez Adrian (Durham University) Excess
and playfulness in Latin American film: the seascape scene from Y tu mamá
también to Post tenebras lux. In a
series of early 21st-century Latin American films, urban ruins and
‘naturescapes’ appear to be connected with images of economic catastrophe and
cultural decay on the one hand, and of social reconstruction and political
recovery on the other. While these images issue from specific local and
national contexts, an emergent, trans-regional and globally-inflected visuality
also suggests a planetary cinematic consciousness playfully exceeding
long-standing approaches to Latin American national cinemas. Focusing on two
films by Mexican directors Alfonso Cuarón (Y tu mamá también, 2001) and Carlos
Reygadas (Post tenebras lux, 2012), this talk considers the figure of the shore
or littoral zone in seascape scenes at the conceptual juncture of affective,
perceptive and sensorial cultural traffickings. Professor Catherine Boyle (King's College
London) Translating, Feminist Knots and Cultural History With reference to the idea of strong voices, this talk will
explore the relationship between the academic self and the questions that are
posed through the process of translation. In respect of my recent work, this
has led to the study of connections in social, labour and feminist histories
between Europe and Latin America. I will pose the questions through translation
processes related to three Chilean women: Gabriela Mistral, Isidora Aguirre and
Violeta Parra.
Dr Maite Conde (Cambridge University) - Wednesday 19 March 2014. Download abstract (PDF).
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				   As one of the world’s top universities, UCL
excels across the humanities and social sciences sciences. SELCS has
an outstanding reputation for its teaching and research, with students taught
by and researching alongside world-class academics.  Home to the UK’s first professors in Spanish,
French, German, Italian and Dutch, SELCS brings together eleven languages, many
different disciplines and a global approach to understanding languages and
culture from the medieval period to the present.  SELCS offers students valuable skills for
employment at a time when language skills are strongly sought after by employers. These include the
ability to speak, understand and write in a foreign language, intercultural
understanding, translation and communication skills, and analytical rigour. Find out more about our Undergraduate Programmes, including details on applications and our year abroad.We offer a range of inter-disciplinary Taught Masters Programmes. Find out more and apply now.Our Research covers a broad range of topics, including  cultural history, digital humanities, film, and gender.Affiliate students are able to choose from a range of courses covering literature, linguistics, history, sociology, philosophy, art, film and other aspects of the cultures associated with the languages taught in SELCS.SELCS offers some scholarships and bursaries to students for specific areas of study. Students can also apply for funding through UCL centrally, and via external bodies. The admissions process differs depending on your chosen level of study. Find out more about these processes and how you can express your interest to study with UCL. Modern Languages graduates are highly valued by employers for their linguistic and cultural knowledge, and for their set of 
transferable skills. Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 Depending on your chosen level of study, you will need to
follow one of the following pathways in order to submit an application 
to study with us. Applications for Undergraduate Programmes should be made through UCAS
 (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants 
currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the 
process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based 
outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS. Please ensure you’ve read the guidelines and entry requirements for 
the Programme you wish to apply for before submitting your application. 
You can return to the Undergraduate Programme page, if you wish to revisit the Programme overview and entry requirements.If you have any questions about applying for any of the undergraduate courses in the School of European Languages, Culture and Society please do get in touch with Jo Wolff, Admissions Officer.
 

   Apply for Undergraduate Study

 
 If you are applying for Graduate Taught or Graduate Research 
Programmes, you will submit your application directly to the central 
admissions team at UCL. Please ensure you have read the Programme 
guidelines and entry requirements before submitting your application. 
You can return to the Graduate Taught page if you wish to revisit the Programme overviews and entry requirements. Formal applications for Graduate Research Programmes are made via the
 central UCL admissions pages but you are advised to contact us with specific questions before making an application. For questions on research opportunities, please contact Professor Mairead Hanrahan, SELCS Research Director or Jo Wolff, Admissions Officer.
 

   Apply for Graduate Study

 
Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				SELCS welcomes students from colleges and universities around the world who wish to gain credit for modules (courses) taken at UCL in order to graduate from their home universities.Students from abroad who spend a period of study at UCL via an Erasmus+, Exchange or Junior Year Abroad (JYA) scheme, or following an independent application, are classed as 'Affiliate Students'. As an Affiliate student you will: •   Study alongside UCL and international students,
benefiting from UCL's world-class teaching system and renowned academics.•   Have the flexibility to take modules across a range of
UCL subjects and departments, tailoring your module to your own particular
interests in this area.•   Have access to your academic Personal Tutor (known as an
‘Affiliate Tutor’).•   Be encouraged to integrate into UCL student life, with
access to events, societies and clubs both within SELCS and across
UCL.•   Benefit from the prime London location and resources through the surrounding libraries, museums and institutes.The School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) is a UCL department comprising six language sub-departments: Dutch, French, German, Italian, Scandinavian Studies and Spanish, Portuguese & Latin American Studies. Affiliate students are able to choose from a range of modules covering literature, linguistics, history, sociology, philosophy, art, film and other aspects of the cultures associated with the languages taught in SELCS.While at UCL, Affiliates follow a programme of study to the same credit level as regular UCL students. This comprises 60 ECTS (32 US credits) in an academic session or 30 ECTS (16 US credits) if you are here only for semester 1 (term 1) or only for semester 2 (both term 2 and term 3 respectively).You may well find that during your studies at UCL you are expected to undertake significantly more individual and independent study outside of classes than you are used to. As a result, you may also have fewer classes per week than at your home institution. Attendance on all classes at UCL is compulsory.In SELCS we admit students in both September and January in three different categories:•   SELCS as first or only named home department:You must take 50% of your modules in SELCS. The other 50% may be taken in SELCS or in other UCL departments, subject to space and prerequisites. It is important to note that SELCS does not manage module registration outside of this department and cannot guarantee places in other UCL departments.•   SELCS as second named home department :You must take 50% of your modules in your first named department at UCL, and 25% within SELCS. The remaining 25% may be taken in other UCL departments (including SELCS and your first named department), subject to space and prerequisites, and any local regulations of your first named department.•   Affiliate students from other UCL departments:We welcome students from a wide variety of departments and disciplines across UCL to SELCS modules, subject to space and prerequisites. More information on our module registration process for non-SELCS students and relevant contact details can be found here.If you are looking to apply as an Erasmus or Exchange student, please check your university has an appropriate agreement in place with UCL SELCS. Before students apply, partner universities should submit their nominations to SELCS Study Abroad Officer via selcs.studyabroad@ucl.ac.uk.Applications should be e-mailed to the central UCL Admissions Office, via affiliatestudents@ucl.ac.uk. To check your application status or ask questions about the process (including visa queries), please e-mail the Admissions Office or call +44 (0) 20 3108 4400.We look forward to welcoming you at SELCS! 
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				MA students from Ecole Normale Supérieure (ENS) de Lyon in France and from Scuola Normale Superiore (SNS) di Pisa in Italy are welcome to study in SELCS via Erasmus+.All SELCS Affiliates take a minimum of 50% of their programme of study within SELCS. They may take the remaining 50% in any UCL department or programme, including SELCS, subject to the availability of places on modules (courses) and provided that they meet the prerequisites for modules that they wish to attend.Each UCL module has a code, which indicates which department or language sub-department runs it (e.g., SPANG***, SCANG***) and a title (e.g "Nomadic Literature"). Please note that graduate students (also called postgraduate/PG or Master/MA students) must choose graduate modules only. A combination of undergraduate and graduate modules is not permitted. Graduate modules are indicated by the 'G' following the departmental or language code, e.g. ITALG012, GERMG032. Each UCL module is assigned a weighting, measured in 'credits’. This weighting will either be 15 UCL credits or 30 UCL credits. These can be translated into ECTS as follows:•   15 UCL credits = 7.5 ECTS•   30 UCL credits = 15 ECTSFor queries relating to PG module registration in SELCS, please contact SELCS Postgraduate Officer.A full listing of available modules will be sent to accepted students. It will give you further details including summary of content, credit value, timetabling and assessment information.On arrival at UCL, students will be able to discuss their module choices with the academic and administrative staff in the departments where they intend to take modules.All module selections must be agreed with your home institution.Recommended ModulesSome Advanced ELCS modules (module codes ELCSG***) are available to graduate affiliates. Students follow the same classes as undergraduate students but in addition attend seminars run exclusively for them. They also take a different form of assessment from undergraduate students. All incoming affiliate students are expected to attend International Student Orientation Programme (ISOP), which is organised by central UCL International Student Support (ISS) team. The ISS team is dedicated to providing support to all non-UK students at UCL, including guidance on welfare and various practical matters. Please visit their website for pre-arrival advice and useful information about life in London and settling in at UCL. You may also contact the ISS team for further advice, via internationalsupport@ucl.ac.uk.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				•   Affiliate students starting in autumn are expected to arrive in London on Monday 17th September to attend International Student Orientation Programme (ISOP) which begins on 18th September in the morning.•   Affiliates starting in January are expected to arrive in London on Tuesday 2nd January to attend ISOP which will begin on 3rd January in the morning.•   Students arriving late should e-mail selcs.studyabroad@ucl.ac.uk and also refer to advice published here.To access UCL academic calendar, please click here. Please note that Orientation Programme begins 1 week before the official start of term.•   Semester 1 = autumn term (teaching and assessment) / slightly shorter than 3 months•   Semester 2 = spring term (teaching) + summer term (assessment) / 5 months in total•   SELCS Affiliates must take a minimum of 50% of their modules/credits in SELCS. They can take the remaining 50% in SELCS or in other UCL departments, subject to availability. SELCS cannot guarantee places outside of this department, therefore, students should be prepared for the possibility of taking all modules in SELCS.•   Students can take modules worth up to a maximum of 30 ECTS per semester / 16 US credits (for example, 4 modules worth 7.5 ECTS each).•   If approved by their home university, students can take a reduced number of credits (minimum 22.5 ECTS per semester).After arrival, students will be able to discuss their module choices with the SELCS Affiliates Tutor and with other academic and administrative staff in the departments where they intend to take modules, and to make changes if necessary. •   Erasmus students from partner universities in France, Italy and Spain must take the following translation module(s) for the duration of their study at SELCS (worth 7.5 ECTS per semester).•   Students who would not get any credits at their home university for their compulsory module(s) should report it to selcs.studyabroad@ucl.ac.uk before their arrival, so that they can be exempt from this requirement.• Translation into English I (FREN4005) Term 1• Translation into English II (FREN4006) Term 2These modules are also available as an option to other affiliates.• English Academic Writing and Translation Skills ITAL6002 - Full Year ITAL6004 - Term 1 only ITAL6001 - Term 2 onlyThese modules are available only to Italian native speakers.• Spanish Language III / Advanced Spanish Language for Affiliates (Translation from Spanish into English) SPAN4001A - Term 1 SPAN4001B - Term 2These modules are also available as an option but only to SELCS affiliates from Latin America.•   Modules in 2017-18: Click here for a list of  modules currently available to affiliate students.•   Modules in 2018-19: A list of available SELCS modules will be available in summer 2018.Each module description should say if the module is run in term 1 or term 2. For exact teaching times, please check the UCL Common Timetable (weeks 6-10/12-16 indicate term 1 and weeks 20-24/26-30 - term 2). Please see the following document for step-by-step instructions on how to check your timetable (PDF file).Some modules (for example, ELCS*) are taught in the form of one lecture for all students and a number of small-group seminars. Students must attend all lectures and one specific seminar group to which they will be allocated after they arrive in London. Please be aware of the possibility of module clashes and that all timetables might be subject to changes.SELCS Affiliates can take up to 50% of their modules/credits in other UCL departments, subject to availability and prerequisites for modules. More information about modules offered by other UCL departments can be found on their websites or via Study Abroad Guide.To help you navigate the many differing procedures in various UCL departments to register for modules, please refer to the Affiliate Registration Procedures 2017-18 (PDF file) which also provides contact details for each department. Please carefully read and follow their instructions.Please refer to additional information for module registration in these UCL departments:•   Arts & Sciences (BASc) - PDF file•   Hebrew & Jewish Studies - PDF file•   Psychology & Language SciencesPlease be aware of the possibility of timetable clashes with your SELCS modules and that all timetables might be subject to changes.Please see this page for Erasmus documentation queries.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				•   Learning Agreements should be e-mailed to SELCS via selcs.erasmus@ucl.ac.uk. Please note this mailbox is monitored only for submission of the incoming students' Erasmus documentation. For other queries, please e-mail Ania at selcs.studyabroad@ucl.ac.uk.•   If you are already in London, please bring your completed learning agreement to SELCS office and ask for Stafano, who will sign it on behalf of Ania. Stefano's current office hours are: Mondays & Wednesdays: 8:30am-12:30pm & 2pm-3:30pm and Tuesdays: 8:30am-12:30pm.•   If your agreement was prepared by your university and
 has different information than below, please inform them about our 
correct details, so that they can amend your 
agreement before you arrive:Please bring your Arrival / Departure forms to the UCL Student Centre (click here for opening hours). UCL Student Centre starts signing Arrival forms on 25th September (or 8th January for January starters). Affiliate students may request to have their forms signed retrospectively, with the Orientation Programme start date.•   If a student already left UCL, confirmation of attendance can be requested from UCL Student Centre via studentstatus@ucl.ac.uk.Although the UCL autumn term is less than 90 days, it should still be acceptable as a full academic term for the purpose of Erasmus mobility for studies. These rules are specified by individual national agencies in each country and application of this rule seems to vary, however, please note the following document in the link below which explains that minimum duration of a study period is 3 months, or 1 academic term or trimester (please see the small print for point 25 at the bottom of page 36). The above information was passed on to all our partner universities.If students are required by their home institution to spend at least 3 months (90 days) at UCL, we recommend that they apply for semester 2 instead, which consists of term 2 and term 3 respectively and lasts 5 months (from early January to early June). We currently do not complete any Transcripts of Records (Part 5 of Erasmus Learning Agreement 'After the Mobility') because these are replaced by final UCL transcripts.•   Autumn Term Students:Information will be updated soon. •   Full Year and Spring Semester Students:Exam results are usually released on Portico (online student records system) around mid July. After that, the central UCL Registry starts producing and sending out all transcripts, which should reach your home university (Erasmus Coordinator) by the end of August. If your transcript is not received by then, it should be reported to UCL Registry via transcripts@ucl.ac.uk.If a student requires an earlier transcript for their Master application, a request must come from their home university by e-mail to selcs.studyabroad@ucl.ac.uk. We will then be able to prepare an interim, provisional confirmation of results.Any student who has failed a module during the year will be offered a second and final attempt to resit in the summer late assessment period, which will take place in late August, with the results (and final UCL transcript) processed by mid-September. Late August assessment period is the same for all students (including affiliates who studied at UCL only in autumn term).Affiliate students will have to signal their intention to resit once the results are available. Students must request permission from their home university to be able to resit. To request a resit formally, a confirmation of approval must be e-mailed by the home university to selcs.studyabroad@ucl.ac.uk. 
                                     
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				IMPORTANT: • Modules may be subject to change.• Modules starting with codes: DUTC*, FREN*, GERM*, ITAL*, PORT*,  SCAN* and SPAN* might be subject to any module-specific prerequisites (such as language proficiency). Please check the descriptions.• Modules starting with codes: ELCS6* and LITC*, for which there are no prerequisites, are taught and assessed in English.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Students from other departments at UCL are welcome to request to take SELCS modules on the understanding that:•   They have permission from their home department at UCL to take a module within SELCS•   There is space on the module•   There are no timetable clashes with their other modules•   Students meet any prerequisites required by individual modules (please check module descriptions for more information)When allocating modules, we give priority to SELCS students and SELCS affiliates, therefore, we will aim to confirm whether you have secured your place on requested modules by the end of Induction week. We advise that you have reserve options in place in case it is not possible for us to allocate you to requested SELCS modules.If you need to request changes once teaching has started, please contact the relevant administrative staff (as listed above).To make module changes on Portico, please contact your main department.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Modern Languages graduates are highly valued by employers for their linguistic and cultural knowledge, and for their set of 
transferable skills. SELCS graduates go on to work in varied roles across the public, 
private and charitable sectors, as well as working as language consultants and teachers. Some of our recent graduates have been employed by the following organisations:SELCS students benefit from careers advice that is provided by the UCL Careers Service.
 The UCL Careers Service provide a range of services including: short or
 long 1-1 meetings to discuss career choices, reading CVs, conducting 
practice interviews or assessment centre techniques, and providing 
access to written guides on many career pathways.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern European Language Scholarships (MELS) were launched in 2014 and aim to attract the most outstanding language students to UCL. Five awards are made each year. Applicants must be:Awards consist of £5,000 per year for the duration of the scholar’s programme (to a maximum of four years). Renewal of the scholarship is subject to an average grade of 2:1 being achieved each year. The scholar will be given the option of whether to receive the award as maintenance or tuition fee funding (or a combination of the two).Once you have confirmed UCL as your ‘firm acceptance’ choice, through UCAS, on an eligible programme offered by the School of European Languages, Culture & Society or a language based programme offered by the School of Slavonic & Eastern European Studies, you will automatically be considered for a Modern European Language Scholarship. There are no additional documents required for the scholarships and there is no separate scholarship application form. Selection is primarily on the basis of academic merit – financial circumstances are not taken into account. Candidates will be required to demonstrate their commitment to UCL’s aims of global citizenship, cultural diversity, and a multi-disciplinary approach to their studies.Selection will be made by a joint panel of academics from SELCS and SSEES.The selection panel meets in early September and successful candidates can expect to be notified by mid-September. Awards will only be made to students who have registered to study at UCL. *NOTE: All scholarship and student funding schemes are subject to availability of funds, and details given here are subject to change at any time. Potential applicants are urged to check information regularly to ensure they are aware of current procedures, deadlines etc.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The information below applies to SELCS students of all departments (Dutch, French, German, Italian, Scandinavian Studies
and Spanish & Latin American Studies). SELCS is part of the AHRC consortium London Arts and
Humanities Partnership (LAHP), along with King’ College, London and the School of
Advanced Study.  More information of these awards, including how to apply can
be found on the LAHP website.NOTE: Applications for
joint-supervision between two of the partners of LAHP, whilst not necessary,
are particularly encouraged.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Our Research covers a broad range of topics, including  cultural history, digital humanities, film, and gender.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Applications should be submitted 
online. When doing so, remember to print off a copy of your online 
application for your own records.UCL offers conditional places to applicants who have not 
completed their undergraduate or MA degrees programmes. Candidates should inform 
the UCL Registry via the UCL Select Admissions Portal as soon as they 
know their results.   
Students can begin their research degrees at any time of year, so there 
are no deadlines for admission. It may take up to six weeks for applications to be processed. Overseas applicants must leave
 time to complete the formalities for clearance to enter the UK, which 
can take some time.Applicants intending to apply for scholarships will 
need to complete the application process before applying for 
scholarships.  Scholarship deadlines usually fall in early spring. For 
information consult the Funding tab. We recommend that candidates begin their degrees in 
September, where possible, as various funds (such as the AHRC) work to an 
academic calendar. Candidates for a research degree  normally need  an MA 
degree in an area of study appropriate to their research proposal, or 
else an equivalent qualification from overseas.   The minimum programme length for the MPhil and PhD degrees 
is two calendar years of full-time study or the equivalent in part-time 
study. Usually PhD degrees take at least three years full-time study or 
the equivalent in part-time study.The examination for both degrees is 
by thesis. The maximum word lengths of MPhil and PhD theses are 60,000 
and 100,000 words respectively. Please contact the Admissions Officer for advice about the application procedure and the progress of your application.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				All research projects using personal data must be registered with Legal Services before the data is collected. This includes projects approved by the Joint Research Office. Form 2 should be used to register most projects. For those approved by the Joint Research Office Form 9 should be used. Both forms can be downloaded from https://www.ucl.ac.uk/finance/legal/dp-foi-overview. They should be completed electronically and sent to data-protection@ucl.ac.uk with copies of any information sheets and consent forms that you are using.Projects using truly anonymised or aggregated information does not have to be registered with Legal Services and you do not have to worry about compliance with the Data Protection Act 1998. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				  SELCS and UCL offer several funding opportunities for research students. The SELCS funding panel will only consider your application for these scholarships if you have already completed the UCL procedure for admission as a postgraduate research student. This may take up to four weeks. Applicants should ensure that they leave time for referees to submit their references. Please note that funding applications from students who have not yet applied to UCL will not be considered.You may also wish to research the scholarships and awards available to the UCL-wide community on UCL's central Funding page.Applications and letters of recommendation for the GRS, ORS, CSC and  Wolfson Scholarships should be sent via email or post to Dr Julia Wagner in the SELCS post-graduate office. The deadline for 2018 entry is 5 January 2018. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				SELCS has some limited
funding to enable its Graduate Students to carry out their research and attend
conferences. Students wishing to apply for this funding should complete the
form available here and send it to the SELCS Research Director, Professor
Mairéad Hanrahan.Application Form:documents/pgr-fundsRegister your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The School regularly advertise teaching opportunities to its 
postgraduate research students during their second-, third-year of study and, if 
appropriate, during their ‘writing-up’ year. Only exceptionally are 
first-year research students asked to teach.Part-time students may 
begin teaching in their third year. Teaching can be of language or 
content courses; the SELCS Writing Lab also has positions for 
postgraduate research students. Positions are advertised as they arise via the Moodle handbook to all SELCS postgraduate students (irrespective of their 
departments).Advertisements usually ask students to submit a CV 
and cover letter and, if the applicant is shortlisted, to attend an interview.For further information contact J.Wagner@ucl.ac.uk. All PGTA vacancies within SELCS and other schools and departments of are advertised on the Faculty Intranet.
Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 Students currently enrolled on a PhD overseas can apply to study at UCL 
as a visiting research student to conduct Research here towards their 
PhD overseas. You can apply to spend 3 to 12 months at UCL undertaking 
research which is complementary to the Doctoral/PhD project at your 
'home' university.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
                           
				We offer a range of inter-disciplinary Taught Masters Programmes. Find out more and apply now.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				You can find out all the information about current modules taught for the current academic year on our website. This will generally include information about the content, reading lists and academic contacts. This information is a guide only and may be subject to change without notice. If you have questions about a module please get in touch with the relevant contact.For undergraduate modules which start with codes DUTC* (Dutch), FREN* (French), GERM* (German), ITAL* (Italian), PORT* (Portuguese),  SCAN* (Scandinavian), SPAN* (Spanish), LITC* (Comparative Literature) and LCUL* (Language & Culture) please get in touch with the individual language department.Interdepartmental modules are those starting with codes ELCS* and if you have questions about these please get in touch with the SELCS Undergraduate Officers. For postgraduate modules, please visit our Graduate Taught courses page, select your pathway, and you will find the module information there. For help with these please contact SELCS PG Officer.-   Year 1 modules-   Year 2 modules-   Final Year modulesThe School’s ELCS (European Languages, Culture and Society) modules
introduce students to a broad comparative, interdisciplinary and intercultural
approaches to the humanities in modules which complement those followed in
language-specific departments.-   ELCS modulesStudents from other UCL departments (including non-SELCS affiliates) may request to take SELCS elective modules.-   How to request modules at SELCSCome and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Students from other departments at UCL are welcome to request to take SELCS modules on the understanding that:•   They have permission from their home department at UCL to take a module within SELCS•   There is space on the module•   There are no timetable clashes with their other modules•   Students meet any prerequisites required by individual modules (please check module descriptions for more information) When allocating modules, we give priority to SELCS students, therefore, we will aim to confirm whether you have secured your place on requested modules by the end of Induction week.  We advise that you have reserve options in place in case it 
is not possible for us to allocate you to requested SELCS modules.  If you need to request changes once teaching has started, please contact the relevant administrators (as listed above).To make module changes on Portico, please contact your main department.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on 
offer and talk to members of academic staff. These events can be 
extremely valuable in helping you make an informed choice about what to study. The Open Days offer a variety of activities, 
including admissions talks, general talks on topics such as 
accommodation, finance and careers. There are also accommodation tours, 
faculty and information fairs, taster sessions, and much more.  The Open Days for 2017 are now finished, but you can find watch videos from the SELCS Subject talks below.You can find out more information about Open Days and campus visits here:
 

   Read more and register to attend UCL Open Days

 
Staff will also be representing SELCS at UCL's postgraduate Open Day in the autumn (date to be confirmed).
 

   Read more and register to attend UCL Open Days

 
 Watch our films from one of UCL's undergraduate open days in June this year to get a feel for what happens on the day.  Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 The flexible programme allows students to enhance their 
knowledge of the language of their choice, while offering the 
opportunity to take courses in history, 
literature and culture. The MA may be taken over one year full-time or 
two years 
part-time via different language pathways. Overview of Modules 2017/18 (including ELCS Advanced and Portugese modules)SELCS staff also provide the teaching across a range of 
interdisciplinary programmes available in SELCS or centres within the 
Faculty of Arts and Humanities.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				September 2018Optional qualifications: This degree is also available as a PG Diploma and a PG Certificate with fees set accordingly.Location: London, BloomsburyA minimum of an upper second-class Bachelor's degree in a relevant discipline from a UK university or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedFurther information can be found on our English language requirements page.Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website.UCL Dutch is the largest Centre for Low Countries Studies in the Anglophone world. It was here that Dutch first attained the status of a serious academic discipline and a chair in Dutch has been occupied almost continuously since 1919. In both teaching and research the department is an internationally recognised centre for excellence.UCL Dutch has one of the largest Dutch libraries outside of the Low Countries and hosts an annual Writer-in-Residence as well as regular research seminars by visiting lecturers and professors from the Netherlands and Flanders, together with exchange students ensuring close contact between the department and the Dutch-speaking countries.UCL's central location offers students easy access to London's extraordinary resources, including the major collection of Dutch and Flemish Art in the National Gallery, the Courtauld Institute of Art, and the Warburg Institute, among many others. The cultural offerings of the Dutch Centre Austin Friars, Flanders House, and the Dutch and Belgian embassies and associations, and a wealth of exhibitions, films and theatrical performances are all nearby.Department: School of European Languages, Culture & SocietyThe Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture & Society80% rated 4* (‘world-leading’) or 3* (‘internationally excellent’)Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website. Under the Language, Culture and History MA, UCL Dutch offers a comprehensive and intensive module of interdisciplinary study in the history and culture of the Low Countries. It also provides training in subject-specific and generic research skills, geared towards preparation for doctoral research.All MA programmes should add up to 180 credits. They can be taken as Taught or Research-Intensive Pathways, details are given below.Modules for 2017/18You will take the core course (30 credits), the dissertation (60 credits) and 90 credits-worth of other modules, at least 60 credits of which must be chosen from the language-specific pathway.You will take the core course (30 credits), the dissertation (90 credits) and 60 credits-worth of modules from the language-specific pathway.Compulsory ModulesorDutch Module Options These MA modules are designed as an extension to an existing undergraduate course and students taking it will taught along with the undergraduates following that course. MA students following these modules will be provided with five extra 'dedicated' seminars covering material not featured in the undergraduate modules. The examination of these modules, and the assessment for them, are different from the examination and assessment of the undergraduate modules.Elective modules offered as part of the MA Language Culture and History programme may be withdrawn in the event of low uptake.Other Module OptionsWith the agreement of the Programme Director, students may combine their interests in Dutch Studies with other areas or subjects taught across the various MA programmes.  Students may choose from:Students are advised to apply as early as possible due to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding (particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application deadlines.The programme is unique in the UK. It is suitable for students with a first degree or equivalent with an interest in Dutch language, history, culture and society, or the impact Dutch had or continues to have in the world. Reading knowledge of Dutch is required, but this can also be improved as part of the programme.For more information see our Applications page.Apply nowWhen we assess your application we would like to learn:Together with essential academic requirements, the personal statement is your opportunity to illustrate whether your reasons for applying to this programme match what the programme will deliver.Degree last modified on 6 January 2017 at 11:58 by UCL Publications & Marketing Services. Please contact us for content updates.As labour market intelligence by the University Council for Modern Languages (2011) points out, Dutch is one of the five most requested languages in the UK job adverts, ahead of Russian and even Chinese! This is due to the close economic and cultural ties between the Netherlands, Flanders and the UK. Moreover, the report points out that even if your trading partners speak English well, it still pays to speak their language, having developed intercultural skills as taught by UCL Dutch.As graduates with Dutch are rare this makes for a very vibrant employment situation, even in times of economic crisis. There is demand for graduates who can help overcome the shortage of teachers of Dutch and translators from Dutch into English. The demand for teachers is from adult education institutes and increasingly from higher and secondary education; in the case of translators it comes from Dutch, Belgian and European institutions, from translation agencies and from business.The programme, unique to the UK, will be of interest both to those who wish to enhance their knowledge of Dutch culture for professional purposes – in the field, for example, of education, media, commerce and tourism – as well as to students wishing to pursue their studies to a doctoral level.Degree last modified on 6 January 2017 at 11:58 by UCL Publications & Marketing Services. Please contact us for content updates.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.Tuition fees (2018/19)UK/EU:    £10,140 (FT) £5,120 (PT)Overseas:    £21,160 (FT) £10,740 (PT)  Download BrochureRegister interest in your chosen subjects. Receive notice of graduate open days, events and more.Register your interest
                                   
                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				September 2018Optional qualifications: This degree is also available as a PG Diploma and a PG Certificate with fees set accordingly.Location: London, BloomsburyA minimum of an upper second-class Bachelor's degree involving specialisation in French from a UK university or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard. Applications from students who do not have formal qualifications in French, but who are competent in the language, will be considered.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedFurther information can be found on our English language requirements page.Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website.UCL has a renowned tradition in both teaching and research in French, dating back to its foundation in 1826 and continuing to the present day. UCL is at the leading-edge of current debate in French, which involves challenging the boundaries of French studies and contributing to its remapping. Students are taught by nationally and internationally renowned experts in their fields.There is a thriving research culture in the school: students can attend and participate in an extensive programme of seminars. Students also have access to conferences held at the Institute of Modern Language Research and are welcome to participate in its graduate forum.The department has excellent research facilities, including an extensive library of films on DVD.Department: School of European Languages, Culture & SocietyThe Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture & Society80% rated 4* (‘world-leading’) or 3* (‘internationally excellent’)Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.We welcome applications from students with a good BA in French (or related subject) for either mode of study. While it is expected that applicants will have a high level of proficiency in French, in some cases we will consider applicants without advanced level French-language qualifications who have gained equivalent skills and competence by other means.The programme encourages innovative approaches to issues in French and Francophone studies, as well as to sharpen the creative critical responses of students. All MA programmes should add up to 180 credits. They can be taken as Taught or Research-Intensive Pathways, details are given below.Modules 2017/18You will take the core course (30 credits), the dissertation (60 credits) and 90 credits-worth of other modules, at least 60 credits of which must be chosen from the language-specific pathway.You will take the core course (30 credits), the dissertation (90 credits) and 60 credits-worth of modules from the language-specific pathway.Compulsory ModulesorFrench Module Options Elective/optional modules offered as part of the MA Language Culture and History programme may be withdrawn in the event of low uptake.Other Module OptionsWith the agreement of the Programme Director, students may combine their interests in French and Francophone Studies with other areas or subjects taught across the various MA programmes. Students may choose from:Students are advised to apply as early as possible due to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding (particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application deadlines.The programme will appeal to students wishing to extend their knowledge in this field and/or preparing for future PhD work. Although aimed at students with a first degree in French, students without French reading skills will be considered. Most of the set texts are available in English translation, and can be used for assessments.For more information see our Applications page.Apply nowWhen we assess your application we would like to learn:Together with essential academic requirements, the personal statement is your opportunity to illustrate whether your reasons for applying to this programme match what the programme will deliver.Degree last modified on 6 January 2017 at 11:58 by UCL Publications & Marketing Services. Please contact us for content updates.The programme provides an excellent foundation for further doctoral study in the field. Graduates of the department have entered a wide range of professions including finance, commerce, journalism, education, the media, public relations, translation and interpreting, and the police.Careers data is taken from the ‘Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education’ survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2012–2014 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.Degree last modified on 6 January 2017 at 11:58 by UCL Publications & Marketing Services. Please contact us for content updates.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.Tuition fees (2018/19)UK/EU:    £10,140 (FT) £5,120 (PT)Overseas:    £21,160 (FT) £10,740 (PT) Degree last modified on 6 January 2017 at 11:58 by UCL Publications & Marketing Services. Please contact us for content updates.Download BrochureRegister interest in your chosen subjects. Receive notice of graduate open days, events and more.Register your interest
                               
                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				September 2018Optional qualifications: This degree is also available as a PG Diploma and a PG Certificate with fees set accordingly.Location: London, BloomsburyA minimum of an upper second-class Bachelor's degree in a relevant discipline from a UK university or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedFurther information can be found on our English language requirements page.Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website.UCL German is recognised in the UK and overseas as a premier department for the study of German culture, history and language. In the RAE 2008, UCL German was tied for first place in percentage of research judged to be 'world leading' and received the second highest rating overall.UCL's central location offers students easy access to excellent resources, including the British Library, the Institute for Germanic Studies, the German Historical Institute and the Institute of Historical Research.The cultural offerings of the Goethe-Institut, the Austrian Institute, and a wealth of exhibitions, films and theatrical performances are all nearby.Student / staff ratios › 52 staff including 1 postdocs › 30 taught students › 52 research studentsDepartment: School of European Languages, Culture & SocietyStudent / staff ratios › 52 staff including 1 postdocs › 30 taught students › 52 research studentsThe Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture & Society80% rated 4* (‘world-leading’) or 3* (‘internationally excellent’)Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.This MA aims to offer students an opportunity to explore a range of aspects of German history. It seeks to build on UCL's existing strengths and interests in this area and to foster students' specialised knowledge of the field, with a view to further research or as a qualification in its own right.All MA programmes should add up to 180 credits. They
 can be taken as Taught or Research-Intensive Pathways, details are 
given below.You will take the core course (30 credits), the dissertation (60 
credits) and 90 credits-worth of other modules, at least 60 credits of 
which must be chosen from the language-specific pathway.You will take the core course (30 credits), the dissertation (90 
credits) and 60 credits-worth of other modules from the language-specific pathway.Compulsory Modules orMain Module OptionsModules can be chosen from any of the European Studies MA programmes and German Department.Other Modules With the agreement of the Programme Director, students may combine their interests in German History with other areas or subjects taught across the various MA programmes. Students may choose from:  Students are advised to apply as early as possible due to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding (particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application deadlines.The programme is particularly suitable for students with a first degree in German, history, European studies or other relevant humanities or social science subjects, who wish to develop specialised knowledge of the field, with a view to further research or as a qualification in its own right.Each candidate is required to obtain recommendations from two referees. Candidates seeking AHRC funding should note that applications to the department should be made not less than a month before the AHRC deadline of 1 May.For more information see our Applications page.Apply nowWhen we assess your application we would like to learn:Together with essential academic requirements, the personal statement is your opportunity to illustrate whether your reasons for applying to this programme match what the programme will deliver.The degree offers a graduate qualification in its own right, as well as serving as a pathway towards doctoral research in the field of German and European history. Many students progress from one of our MA programmes to an MPhil or PhD research degree. First destinations of recent graduates include:With their specialist knowledge and language skills, German Master's graduates can be found in business, finance, the media, international agencies, teaching and academia.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.Tuition fees (2018/19)UK/EU:    £10,140 (FT) £5,120 (PT)Overseas:    £21,160 (FT) £10,740 (PT) Degree last modified on 6 January 2017 at 11:58 by UCL Publications & Marketing Services. Please contact us for content updates.Download BrochureRegister interest in your chosen subjects. Receive notice of graduate open days, events and more.Register your interest
                                   
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				September 2018Optional qualifications: This degree is also available as a PG Diploma and a PG Certificate with fees set accordingly.Location: London, BloomsburyA minimum of an upper second-class Bachelor's degree in a relevant discipline from a UK university or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedFurther information can be found on our English language requirements page.Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website.UCL German is recognised in the UK and overseas as a premier department for the study of German culture, history and language. In the RAE 2008, UCL German was tied for first place in percentage of research judged to be 'world leading' and received the second highest rating overall.UCL's central location offers students easy access to excellent resources, including the British Library, the Institute for Germanic Studies, the German Historical Institute and the Institute of Historical Research. The cultural offerings of the Goethe Institut, the Austrian Institute, and a wealth of exhibitions, films and theatrical performances are all nearby.Department: School of European Languages, Culture & SocietyThe Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture & Society80% rated 4* (‘world-leading’) or 3* (‘internationally excellent’)Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.This interdisciplinary MA aims to offer students from a variety of intellectual backgrounds the opportunity to explore a wide range of aspects of German culture, thought and history.It seeks to build on the German Department's existing strengths and interests and to foster interdisciplinary research in the area of German Studies. It also provides students with an excellent foundation in most elements of German Studies at an advanced level.Applications are welcome from students with a broad interest in matters German, who have a first or good second-class honours degree (or the equivalent from non-UK institutions) in German, European Studies, history, politics and sociology, and related fields, and a knowledge of German at least equivalent to A-level standard. The degree programme may be taken over one year full-time or two years part-time.All MA programmes should add up to 180 credits. They can be taken as Taught or Research-Intensive Pathways, details are given below.You will take the core course (30 credits), the dissertation (60 credits) and 90 credits-worth of other modules, at least 60 credits of which must be chosen from the language-specific pathway.You will take the core course (30 credits), the dissertation (90 credits) and 60 credits-worth of other modules from the language-specific pathway.Compulsory Modules orGerman Module Options These MA modules are designed as an extension to an existing undergraduate course and students taking it will taught along with the undergraduates following that course. MA students following these modules will be provided with five extra 'dedicated' seminars covering material not featured in the undergraduate modules. The examination of these modules, and the assessment for them, are different from the examination and assessment of the undergraduate modules.Elective modules offered as part of the MA Language Culture and History programme may be withdrawn in the event of low uptake.Modules 2017/18Other Optional Modules With the agreement of the Programme Director, students may combine their interests in German Studies with other areas or subjects taught across the various MA programmes. Students may choose from:Students are advised to apply as early as possible due to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding (particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application deadlines.This programme is particularly suitable for students with a first degree in German, European studies, history, politics or sociology who wish to strengthen their knowledge of German culture and history; either as a foundation for subsequent doctoral research or as a graduate qualification in its own right.Each candidate is required to obtain recommendations from two referees. Candidates seeking AHRC funding should note that applications to the department should be made not less than a month before the AHRC deadline of 1 May.For more information see our Applications page.Apply nowWhen we assess your application we would like to learn:Together with essential academic requirements, the personal statement is your opportunity to illustrate whether your reasons for applying to this programme match what the programme will deliver.The MA provides an excellent foundation year for subsequent doctoral research in all areas of the department's research specialisms. Many students progress from one of our MA programmes to an MPhil or PhD research degree.First destinations of recent graduates include:With their specialist knowledge and language skills, German Master's graduates can be found in business, finance, the media, international agencies, teaching and academia.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.Tuition fees (2018/19)UK/EU:    £10,140 (FT) £5,120 (PT)Overseas:    £21,160 (FT) £10,740 (PT) The Modern European Language Scholarships (MELS) were launched in 2014 and aim to attract the most outstanding language students to UCL. Five awards are made each year. Applicants must be:Awards consist of £5,000 per year for the duration of the scholar’s programme (to a maximum of four years). Renewal of the scholarship is subject to an average grade of 2:1 being achieved each year. The scholar will be given the option of whether to receive the award as maintenance or tuition fee funding (or a combination of the two).Once you have confirmed UCL as your ‘firm acceptance’ choice, through UCAS, on an eligible programme offered by the School of European Languages, Culture & Society or a language based programme offered by the School of Slavonic & Eastern European Studies, you will automatically be considered for a Modern European Language Scholarship. There are no additional documents required for the scholarships and there is no separate scholarship application form. Selection is primarily on the basis of academic merit – financial circumstances are not taken into account. Candidates will be required to demonstrate their commitment to UCL’s aims of global citizenship, cultural diversity, and a multi-disciplinary approach to their studies.Selection will be made by a joint panel of academics from SELCS and SSEES.The selection panel meets in early September and successful candidates can expect to be notified by mid-September. Awards will only be made to students who have registered to study at UCL. *NOTE: All scholarship and student funding schemes are subject to availability of funds, and details given here are subject to change at any time. Potential applicants are urged to check information regularly to ensure they are aware of current procedures, deadlines etc.Degree last modified on 6 January 2017 at 11:58 by UCL Publications & Marketing Services. Please contact us for content updates.Download BrochureRegister interest in your chosen subjects. Receive notice of graduate open days, events and more.Register your interest
                      
                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				September 2018Optional qualifications: This degree is also available as a PG Diploma and a PG Certificate with fees set accordingly.Location: London, BloomsburyA minimum of an upper second-class Bachelor's degree in a relevant discipline from a UK university or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard. A knowledge of Spanish at least equivalent to UK A level standard is required. Applications from students who do not have formal qualifications in Spanish but who are competent in the language, will be considered.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedFurther information can be found on our English language requirements page.Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website.UCL Spanish & Latin American Studies features staff who are nationally and internationally renowned experts in the field, who publish in their specialist areas and are active researchers. The department regularly hosts a number of events including conferences, research seminars, symposia and a documentary film course in Cuba.Our location in London provides access to numerous cultural and social events relating to the Spanish-speaking world, its literature, films, history and politics. We encourage active participation in the events of the Instituto Cervantes and the Institute for the Study of the Americas, both of which provide access to excellent resources to enhance your studies.Department: School of European Languages, Culture & SocietyThe Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture & Society80% rated 4* (‘world-leading’) or 3* (‘internationally excellent’)Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website. This programme option offers a wide-ranging and flexible module for graduates, both of Spanish and Latin American studies and related subjects, wishing to develop their interest in the cultures of the Hispanic world at an advanced level. The programme will appeal to those who wish to enhance their knowledge of the Hispanic world for professional purposes – in the fields of education, culture, media and tourism, for example - as well as to students wishing to pursue their studies to doctoral level.  We welcome applications from students with a good BA in Hispanic Studies (or related subject) for either mode of study. While it is expected that applicants will have a high level of proficiency in Spanish, in some cases we will consider applicants without advanced level Spanish-language qualifications who have gained equivalent skills and competence by other means.  All MA programmes should add up to 180 credits. They can be taken as Taught or Research-Intensive Pathways, details are given below. You will take the core course ELCSGG01 (30 credits), the dissertation ELCSG099 (60 credits) and 90 credits-worth of optional modules, at least 60 credits of which must be chosen from the language-specific pathway. You will take the core course ELCSGG01 (30 credits), the dissertation ELCSG098 (90 credits) and 60 credits-worth of optional modules from the language-specific pathway.Modules 2017/18  Compulsory Modules or Module Options  Elective/optional modules offered as part of the MA Language Culture and History programme may be withdrawn in the event of low uptake. Other Module OptionsWith the agreement of the Programme Director, students may combine their interests in Hispanic Studies with other areas or subjects taught across the various MA programmes. Students may choose from: Students are advised to apply as early as possible due to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding (particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application deadlines.The programme will be of interest both to those who wish to enhance their knowledge of the Hispanic world for professional purposes - in the fields of education, culture, media and tourism, for example - as well as students who are considering pursuing their studies to doctoral level.For more information see our Applications page.Apply nowWhen we assess your application we would like to learn:Together with essential academic requirements, the personal statement is your opportunity to illustrate whether your reasons for applying to this programme match what the programme will deliver.This programme may lead to further research, or to employment in which a broad familiarity with Spanish and Latin American culture is an asset.First destinations of recent graduates of the programme include: The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.Tuition fees (2018/19)UK/EU:    £10,140 (FT) £5,120 (PT)Overseas:    £21,160 (FT) £10,740 (PT)   Degree last modified on 6 January 2017 at 11:58 by UCL Publications & Marketing Services. Please contact us for content updates.Download BrochureRegister interest in your chosen subjects. Receive notice of graduate open days, events and more.Register your interest
                 
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				September 2018Optional qualifications: This degree is also available as a PG Diploma and a PG Certificate with fees set accordingly.Location: London, BloomsburyA minimum of an upper second-class Bachelor's degree in a relevant discipline from a UK university or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedFurther information can be found on our English language requirements page.Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website.UCL Italian is the original home of Italian studies in Britain, and has a distinguished record in the field of graduate studies and research. Students benefit from UCL's excellent Italian resources, including the Rotton and Ogden collections, and the Castiglione and Dante collections.UCL's central location enables easy access to London's exceptional resources including the specialist collections of Italian material in the Warburg and Courtauld Institutes. The British Film Institute Library holds major Italian film periodicals and numerous books on Italian cinema, and the nearby British Library houses the largest collection of early printed books in the world.Department: School of European Languages, Culture & SocietyThe Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture & Society80% rated 4* (‘world-leading’) or 3* (‘internationally excellent’)Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.This MA programme is designed both for students who intend to take a research degree (MPhil or PhD) and for those who wish to further their interest in aspects of Italian literature, language and history.  The MA degree can also serve as a 'conversion' degree, enabling students with first degrees in disciplines other than Italian to move onto a research degree in Italian. All MA programmes should add up to 180 credits. They can be taken as Taught or Research-Intensive Pathways, details are given below.You will take the core course (30 credits), the dissertation (60 credits) and 90 credits-worth of other modules, at least 60 credits of which must be chosen from the language-specific pathway.You will take the core course (30 credits), the dissertation (90 credits) and 60 credits-worth of other modules, at least 60 credits of which must be chosen from the language-specific pathway.Compulsory Modules orItalian Module Options Elective/optional modules offeredas part of the MA Language Culture and History programme may be withdrawn in the event of low uptake.Modules 2017-18Other Module Options With the agreement of the Programme Director, students may combine their interests in Italian Studies with other areas or subjects taught across the various MA programmes. Students may choose from:Students are advised to apply as early as possible due to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding (particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application deadlines.The programme is designed for students wishing to further their interest in Italian literature, language and history, and for those intending to proceed on to doctoral research. It can also serve as a conversion degree, enabling students with first degrees in other disciplines to move onto a research degree in this field.Applicants intending to apply for scholarships will, however, need to complete the application process before applying for a scholarship. Scholarship deadlines usually fall in early spring.For more information see our Applications page.Apply nowWhen we assess your application we would like to learn:Together with essential academic requirements, the personal statement is your opportunity to illustrate whether your reasons for applying to this programme match what the programme will deliver.The programme will be of interest both to those who wish to enhance their knowledge of Italian culture for professional purposes - in the fields, for example, of education, media, commerce and tourism - as well as to students wishing to pursue their studies to a doctoral level.Recent first destinations of MA graduates from the department of Italian at UCL include: The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.Tuition fees (2018/19)UK/EU:    £10,140 (FT) £5,120 (PT)Overseas:    £21,160 (FT) £10,740 (PT) Degree last modified on 6 January 2017 at 11:58 by UCL Publications & Marketing Services. Please contact us for content updates.Download BrochureRegister interest in your chosen subjects. Receive notice of graduate open days, events and more.Register your interest
                                    
                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				September 2018Optional qualifications: This degree is also available as a PG Diploma and a PG Certificate with fees set accordingly.Location: London, BloomsburyA minimum of an upper second-class Bachelor's degree in a relevant discipline from a UK university or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard in a relevant discipline.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedFurther information can be found on our English language requirements page.Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website.UCL Scandinavian Studies is the largest independent Scandinavian department in the UK. Our research and teaching encompasses the languages, literatures, cultures, histories and politics of the entire Nordic region, ranging from the Viking Middle Ages to the present day.Facilities are excellent: UCL boasts possibly the best Scandinavian Studies library outside Scandinavia, and students also have the outstanding collections of the British Library close at hand. Excellent links with universities in mainland Scandinavia, Iceland and Finland provide further benefits.The department is home to the Viking Society for Northern Research, a leading publisher of Old Norse texts and monographs on medieval Scandinavia.Department: School of European Languages, Culture & SocietyThe Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture & Society80% rated 4* (‘world-leading’) or 3* (‘internationally excellent’)Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.The Scandinavian Studies MA option offers an intellectually exciting and flexible range of options focusing on Nordic culture in a global context. No prior knowledge of a Nordic language is required, though students can opt to consolidate their language or translation skills, or to start Danish, Finnish, Icelandic, Norwegian, or Swedish from scratch.The MA can serve as a stepping stone between undergraduate studies and PhD research for students specialising in Nordic Studies. It is also ideal as a one-year professional development opportunity for those working in a field in which knowledge of Scandinavian culture is important: for example, design, publishing, politics, or commerce.Assessed modules are supplemented with workshops and a summer school providing opportunities for networking and career development in publishing, translation, filmmaking, and the heritage and creative sectors.All MA programmes should add up to 180 credits. They can be taken as Taught or Research-Intensive Pathways, details are given below.Modules 2017/18You will take the core course (30 credits), the dissertation (60 credits) and 90 credits-worth of other modules, at least 60 credits of which must be chosen from the language-specific pathway.You will take the core course (30 credits), the dissertation (90 credits) and 60 credits-worth of other modules, at least 60 credits of which must be chosen from the language-specific pathway.Compulsory Module OptionsorScandinavian Module Options These MA modules are designed as an extension to an existing undergraduate course and students taking it will taught along with the undergraduates following that course. MA students following these modules will be provided with five extra 'dedicated' seminars covering material not featured in the undergraduate modules. The examination of these modules, and the assessment for them, are different from the examination and assessment of the undergraduate modules.Elective modules offered as part of the MA Language Culture and History programme may be withdrawn in the event of low uptake.Other Module Options With the agreement of the Programme Director, students may combine their interests in Scandinavian Studies with other areas or subjects taught across the various MA programmes. Students may choose from:Students are advised to apply as early as possible due to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding (particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application deadlines.This MA can serve as a stepping stone between undergraduate studies and PhD research for students specialising in Nordic Studies. It is also ideal as a one-year professional development opportunity for those working in a field in which knowledge of Scandinavian culture is important: for example, design, publishing, politics or commerce.If you are planning to apply for funding from the Arts and Humanities Research Council, you need to submit your application for the degree programme no later than 1 February for the year of entry. Applicants intending to apply for funding from UCL Doctoral School also need to submit their application for the degree programme in good time.For more information see our Applications page.Apply nowWhen we assess your application we would like to learn:Together with essential academic requirements, the personal statement is your opportunity to illustrate whether your reasons for applying to this programme match what the programme will deliver.An MA in Scandinavian Studies offers prospects for employment in the private as well as in the public sector, whether in Scandinavia or in the English-speaking world. Former graduate students in the department are to be found in a range of challenging careers, which include work in IT and management, museums and university teaching.In the UK and abroad, the Nordic countries are increasingly recognised for the success of their political and social model, and for their film, literature, food and design. Our MA graduates bring their deep understanding of Scandinavian culture to careers in which knowledge of the region is key: publishing, the arts, commerce and information management. Expertise in Nordic languages is rare in the UK, and employer demand is accordingly high. Our MA allows students to hone their Nordic language skills or to try a new language. Many of our graduates launch careers with translation companies and as freelancers.Degree last modified on 6 January 2017 at 11:58 by UCL Publications & Marketing Services. Please contact us for content updates.Download BrochureRegister interest in your chosen subjects. Receive notice of graduate open days, events and more.Register your interestYour browser sent a request that this server could not understand.
	    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				2017-2018Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				ELCSGG01 - Language, Culture and HistoryELCSG099 - Dissertation taught pathway (60 credits)ELCSG098 - Dissertation research pathway (90 credits)DUTCG007 - Contemporary History, Society and Culture of the Low CountriesDUTCG903 - Project in DutchDUTCG401 - Dutch Language 3DUTCG504 - Advanced Translation from Dutch to EnglishDUTCG202 - Making Modern Dutch LiteratureFRENGT01 - Advanced Translation FRENGT03 - Translation into French (Advanced)FRENGF03 - The French New Wave (Cahier Cinema) FRENG105 - Dominating Texts: Literary Power Relations in 20th Century French LiteratureFRENG051 - Discourses of EqualityFRENG115 - Legendary Histories (Medieval French Literature)FRENG030 - Culture of AIDS in France: History, Policy and RepresentationFRENG036 - Writing the Self in Post-war France: Aspects of Life-Writing GERMG008 - Wolfram's Parzival GERMG012 - Austrian Literature IGERMG016 - Recording Revolt: 1967 in Germany and AfterGERMG023 - Modern German Art: A Cultural HistoryGERMG028 - Reading Modern NovelsGERMG030 - Language, Power, Ideology GERMG032 - Translation from and into GermanGERMG033 - Discussion and EssayGERMG055 - German Literature and PsychologyGERMG144 - Black GermanyGERMG145 - SurveillanceGERMG146 - EmpathySPANG011A - The Latin American Cinematic TraditionSPANG013A/SPANG028 - Sex and the Body in Early Modern Europe SPANG019 - Advanced Translation from and into Spanish SPANG031 - The City in Latin American CultureSPANGF02 - New Argentine CinemasSPANG408 - The Battle for Memory in Contemporary Spanish Novel: Part 1, The Transition to DemocracySPANG115 - The Literary World of Jorge Luis Borges Part 2 SPANG117 - The Works of Cervantes Part ISPANG415 - Reading and Writing Spanish Microfiction PORTG001 - Advanced Translation from and into PortuguesePORTG420 - Portugal and its Empire in the 20th Century: Trajectories and MemoriesPORTG421 - Short Fiction and the Making of Modern BrazilITALG019 - Advanced Translation from and into Italian FILMG012 - Genre in Italian CinemaITALG026 - Marriage & Divorce Italian Style (1861-1975)ITALG027 - Identity and Perfromance in Renaissance Italy ITALG909 - Italian Contemporary NovelITALG102 - Nation, Culture and Society in Italy (1860-1915)SCANG001 - Advanced Translation (Scandinavian into English)SCANG013 - Introduction to Old NorseSCANG014 - Crime and Small Communities in Nordic Literature SCANGF05 - Nordic Cinema: Contextualising Dreyer, Bergman and Dogme 95SCANGM15 - Advanced Old NorseSCANG310 - Politics and Society in the Nordic Region  ELCSG004 - Metamorphosis: The Limits of the Human ELCSG005 - Organised Crime: Gangster in Life and ArtELCSG012 - Sequential Art as a Form of Engagement ELCSG013 - Language and IdeologyELCSG018 - Writing ShameELCSG023 - Men on the Moon: Cosmic Voyages in the Early Modern PeriodELCSG030 - Black EuropeRegister your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 creditsTutor: Dr Cristina MassaccesiTeaching structure: Teaching will take the form of practical translation and of written commentary on the problems of translation encountered. Assessment: One take-home paper (100%).Module Description:This module will focus on the specific skills of translating texts from 
and into Italian. During the module, the students will have the chance 
to work on various kinds of material, such as literary, cinematographic 
(i.e. subtitles and dubbing) and journalistic texts. The module will 
target the development of skills both in critical reading and in 
interpretation, and it will promote an advanced understanding of the 
translation process. Whilst the emphasis will be on the practical 
aspects of translating and adapting a text, students will also be 
acquiring a basic understanding of theories of translation as well as 
the technical vocabulary appropriate to the area.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:
The study material will be provided to the students via Moodle.
    Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Code: SPANG013AValue: 30 credits versionAssessment: 6,000 word essay (100%)Code: SPANG028Value: 15 credits versionAssessment: 4,000 word essay (100%)Tutor: Dr Alexander SamsonTerm: Term 1Teaching structureModule Description:This module will introduce topics in the history of 
sexuality and analyse the emergence of subjectivity in the early modern 
period through a range of literary, historical and dramatic texts, as 
well as painting. Within a theoretical framework drawing on Lacqueur, 
Bahktin, Greenblatt, Foucault and Barker we will examine areas from 
prostitution, gender, witchcraft, exorcism, and madness to issues 
concerned with the representation of the self and body in love, sickness
 and death.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:In the first instance you should look at a selection of the
 material for the first two sessions on 'Theoretical Concepts in the 
History of Sexuality', perhaps reading extracts from Bahktin, Foucault, 
Laqueur or Maclean, then read Rojas' La Celestina in an edition by Severin either in Spanish or Mabbe's translation. Please note: This
module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may
be made prior to the start of the academic year.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Code: SPANG019Value: 30 creditsCourse Convenor: Dr Mazal OakninTutors: Dr Mazal Oaknin, Dr Guadalupe GerardiTeaching structure: Workshops and seminarsAssessment: Students are assessed by 
coursework (50%) and an unseen 3-hour desk exam (50%). The coursework 
consists of a translation and commentary of a literary, cultural or 
historical text (5,000 words). Module Description:
The MA module in Advanced Translation from and into Spanish
 consists of practical translation exercises covering a wide range 
of texts and registers, including technical Spanish. It aims to develop 
linguistic and interpretative skills to a highly advanced level as well 
as to enhance the understanding of the translation process itself.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This scholarship is offered to a postgraduate masters students studying in one or more of of the following Departments: Italian, French, Dutch and History. the award is worth £7000 for one year and each Department can nominate one candidate on the basis of the admissions application.The scholarship is awarded on the basis of academic excellence, achievement and potential.The deadline for submission of applications is 30 April 2017. Applications submitted after this date will not be considered.For more information, please contact the Dr Julia Wagner in the SELCS/CMII post-graduate office.UCL Dutch aims to reward academic excellence among new students of its postgraduate programme by offering a scholarship for new students starting the MA in Dutch Studies in September 2014. The scholarship covers up to £600 towards study expenses like books, research travel and other research related expenses.Candidates must have been formally admitted to the MA Dutch Studies pathway of the Language, Culture & History MA before they can be considered for a scholarship.To be considered for a scholarship, you must have received a letter from the UCL Registry offering you a place on the programme, and you must have informed the UCL Registry, in writing, of your acceptance of the offer by 1 April 2016.Scholarships are awarded on the basis of academic excellence, achievement and potential. Financial circumstances of the candidates are not taken into account.This bursary has been made possible by generous donations of Alumni of UCL Dutch.Applications are invited for the Siva-Finestone MA Scholarship in French in UCL for the session 2017-18. The Scholarship covers full UK/EU tuition fees for a student admitted to the MA in Language, Culture and History (French and Francophone Studies) programme in the School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS).For further information, please contact the School Research Director, Professor Mairead Hanrahan.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.
                 
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Sorry, this Silva Document is not viewable.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 Read what our students have to say about their experiences of studying at SELCS and their time spent living and studying abroad as part of their Programmes. "I learned so much about how language and culture intertwine and this knowledge is now inextricably part of the way I view the world. The highlight was definitely my year abroad.""I chose UCL after falling in love with London. There is no other university in the city, let alone the UK, which captured its vibrant, multi-cultural and dynamic atmosphere as well as UCL."Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				"I learned so much about how language and culture intertwine and this knowledge is now inextricably part of the way I view the world. The highlight was definitely my year abroad."Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				"I chose UCL after falling in love with London. There is no other university in the city, let alone the UK, which captured its vibrant, multi-cultural and dynamic atmosphere as well as UCL."Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Students can choose from a vast range of degrees and specialisms with the School of European Languages, Culture and Society at UCL, many of which are not available at other institutions. 
SELCS has 6
departments with 11 languages to choose from, as well as options to study combination degrees with
SSEES (School of Slavonic and Eastern European Studies), SOAS (School of
Oriental and African Studies) and other departments at UCL. Find out more about our degree programmes below or by language/department.We offer single language degrees including BA French,
BA Spanish and Latin American Studies, BA German, BA Italian, BA Dutch, BA
Scandinavian Studies, BA Icelandic. We also offer a range of specialist degrees such BA Viking and Old Norse Studies.The BA Modern Languages enables you to combine the study of two languages and
their respective cultures. You can choose from two languages within SELCS, or one in SELCS
and one from other UCL departments or our partner institutions. The BA Modern Language Plus offers you the ability to combine the study of your
chosen language with a range of other subjects across UCL. Options include English, Film, Management, Philosophy amongst others. We also offer degrees in German or Scandinavian Studies and History, which are offered as separate programmes.This is a
degree programme that draws on the departmental expertise across SELCS, and
allows you to combine the study of up to three languages with your own choice
of cultural options in related courses. The BA Comparative Literature affirms UCL’s role as a global leader in
the diverse and thriving field of literary and cultural studies, building on the strength of
well-established departmental programmes, and on a unique range of
language-specific degrees.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Find out more about our Undergraduate Programmes, including details on applications and our year abroad.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				DUTC1001 - Dutch Language 1DUTC1101 - Born out of
Rebellion: The Netherlands from The Dutch Revolt to The Eve of World War IDUTC1201 - Modern Dutch Literary
TextsFREN1001 - Use of FrenchFREN1002 - French OralFREN1003 - Projects in the French LanguageFREN1101 - The Making of Modern
FranceFREN1102 - Reading French
Texts FREN1106 - French FilmGERM1001 - Modern German LanguageGERM1002 - German for
Beginners GERM1101 - Introduction to
German HistoryGERM1102 - Introduction to
German Language & Literature up to 1740GERM1104 - Introduction to
German Film since 1945 GERM1105 - An Introduction to Modern German LiteratureGERM1106 - An Introduction to German Linguistics ITAL1010 - First Year Italian Language ITAL1102 – Cinema and Literature from War to ReconstructionITAL1105 - Background to Dante and InfernoITAL1112 - Imagining the Nation: Italian UnificationITAL1116 - Italian Culture under Fascism ITAL1118 - Introduction to Renaissance ItalySCAN1001 - Basic DanishSCAN1002 - Basic SwedishSCAN1003 - Basic NorwegianSCAN1004 - Basic Modern
IcelandicSCAN1102 - Introduction to
Linguistics and the Scandinavian LanguagesSCAN1201 - Nordic
StorytellingSCAN1303 - Histories and
Cultures of the Nordic RegionSCAN1401 - Introduction to
Old NorseSCAN1402 - Vikings and Material CultureSPAN1001 - Spanish Language ISPAN1212 - Experiments in
Modern Spanish DramaSPAN1213 - Introduction to
Spanish FilmSPAN1220A - Introduction to
Modern Latin American Literature & Culture - Cancelled SPAN1222 - Civilisation and Barbarism in Argentine LiteratureSPAN1223 - Cultural Responses
to the Mexican RevolutionSPAN1224 - The Latin American SupernaturalSPAN1225 - The Spanish Ballad
Tradition from the Middle Ages to LorcaSPAN1500 - Introduction to Spanish and Latin American Studies





 



These courses are compulsory for those on the 'with Portuguese' diets, 
and then available to single honours students (subject to availability).PORT1010 - Beginners'
PortuguesePORT1226 - Introduction to
Portuguese LiteraturePORT1227 - The Brazilian NovelLCUL1001 - Language, Culture and RepresentationLITC1001 Cultural Encounters in World LiteratureLITC1002 How To Read TextsLITC1003 Intimate Strangers: Devils, Monsters, BeastsLITC1004 Literature of TravelLITC1006 Questions of RealismLITC1007 Re-Imagining the Self: Reading Chinese Short FictionLITC1009 Music, Film and Media in AfricaLITC1010 Topics in the Modern Novel: From Realism to Magical Realism Additional Course Content Module available in our partner departments.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150Contact hours: 5 hours (3 seminars, 4 supervisions)Student workload: Watching video or film, reading, supplementary tasks to support writing of the
reports  Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2 Tutor: Dr Benjamin Bacle Assessment: 100% coursework - 2 reports of 1,000 words each  Prerequisites: GCE A level FrenchThis module is compulsory for single-subject and French with Film students. It is
available to CS/ML/MLP francophone students who do not take FREN1002. The module aims to foster research skills and independent learning in French,
leading to the production of pieces of discursive French. In the course of the
year, students are required to write two reviews in French, each of 1000 words,
the subjects of which will normally be a recent book, video or film of their
choice. BA French with Film students will produce two film reviews.  The module is taught through a mixture of seminars and individual tutorials. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0
course units / 15 ECTS Level: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 300Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2 Tutor: Christine Sas and language assistantsAssessment: one unseen two-hour examination (35%); one listening comprehension and oral examination (30%); and a portfolio including essays, listening and vocabulary tests and grammar assignments (35%).Module Description:This is an intensive language module for beginners. Five hours per week are devoted to developing practical language skills alongside basic grammatical competence, to enable students to participate in a wide variety of language exchanges and transactions. By the end of the first year students should be able to communicate fluently in basic written and spoken Dutch, expressing ideas and feelings about non-specialist topics. Attention is paid to developing a critical language awareness. Two hours per week are set aside for self-study, over and above homework tasks and module assessments, in order to consolidate and complement classroom work.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Students should obtain a copy of Routledge Intensive Dutch Course (London/New York: Routledge 2006). Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2 Tutor: Ulrich TiedauAssessment: two 1500 word essays (25% each) and one unseen two-hour examination (50%).Module Description:Situated at the crossroads between the Anglophone, Francophone and German-speaking cultures, “the Low Countries”, present-day Belgium and the Netherlands, offer a fascinating picture of European history en miniature. Many common traits and similar developments have differentiated these countries from the surrounding great powers and have given them a distinct character.The module offers a broad survey of Low Countries History from the late Middle Ages to the eve of World War I. It aims to: develop a good understanding of the major topics of Dutch and Belgian history from the late Middle Ages to the early 20th century; introduce basic concepts and approaches in the study of history; help you develop analytical, writing and presentation skills.Although mainly directed at students of Dutch, the module is also suited for all learners with an interest in this European neighbour region of the UK, whose early modern history was closely intertwined with that of Britain. No previous historical knowledge or competence in Dutch is required.Preparatory reading and set texts: The following textbook, a standard history, provides backup to the programme:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2Tutor: Hans DemeyerAssessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (50%); and one 2000 word coursework essay (50%).Module Description:This term 2 module introduces students to Dutch and Flemish literature through a series of short texts in Dutch. The texts – poetry and prose – are accessible to students who started the language in term 1. The module aims to develop techniques of literary analysis, practice reading skills, expand vocabulary and give students a grounding in contemporary and twentieth-century literature written in Dutch. Preparatory reading and set texts: Many of the stories and poems to be studied in class will be taken from the anthologiesAdditional useful reading:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Full yearConvenor: Marie FournierTutor: various Assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (100%).Students must pass this exam to be able to progress onto second year.Available to: non-specialist students from outside the department who have an A in French at GCE A level.Module Description:The aim of this first-year core language module is to 
establish a firm grasp of basic grammatical structures and tenses and to
 engender the skills of comprehension, explanation and free production 
of written French in a variety of forms. The module is taught in French. Satisfactory attendance and completion of the coursework are normally prerequisites for examination entry.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Full yearConvenor: Marie FournierTutor: various Assessment: one fifteen minute oral examination (100%). Satisfactory completion of 
the coursework is normally a prerequisite for examination entry. Module Description:In this first-year language module, students are required to respond in 
French to a variety of texts and other stimuli in different linguistic 
situations - dialogue, group presentation, synopsis, judgment etc. 
Topics will include a variety of subjects.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Term 2Convenor: Dr Kevin InstonTutor: various Teaching structure:  weekly lecture and seminarAssessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (100%). Satisfactory completion of the coursework is normally a prerequisite for examination entry. Module Description:The aim of this module is to introduce students to some of the key historical events which have shaped modern France, and to develop their critical and essay-writing skills. It will examine documents relating to the Revolution, the Dreyfus Affair, Vichy and the decolonization of Algeria, and encourage students to question the discursive and rhetorical forms which shaped these historical debates. The module looks at the historical context and explores the social, political and symbolic significance of the events. It also incorporates an element of peer-editing which will ask students to reflect upon and improve their own writing practices.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 0.5 course units / 15 UCL credits / 7.5 ECTSCourse Convenor: Dr Thibaut Maus de Rolley Assessment: one unseen two-hour examination (100%). Satisfactory completion of the coursework is normally a prerequisite for examination entry. Available to: ESPS students for whom French is a minor language choose between this module and FREN1101 - The Making of Modern France. Term: Full YearModule Description: The aim of this core course taught
over two terms (Terms 1 & 2) is to introduce students to different literary
genres of writing in French (prose narrative, theatre, poetry) and to equip
them with the analytical skills they will need in subsequent years to study
texts in greater depth.  We will study (not necessarily in chronological
order) six texts or group of texts: the 12th-century Lais de Marie de France, a series of
twelve short narrative poems in verse; L'Heptaméron, a collection of
short stories written by Marguerite de Navarre in the first half of the 16th
century; Molière’s L’Ecole des femmes
(1662), a comedy in verse on the education of women; Denis Diderot’s Supplément
au Voyage de Bougainville (1796), a dialogue contrasting European society
with that of a utopian Tahiti; a selection of 19th-century sonnets;
and finally, Jean-Paul Sartre’s Huis Clos
(1944), an existentialist play in which three deceased characters find
themselves locked in a room for eternity.  Students will attend a series of lectures
(13 hours over two terms) and seminars (14 hours). Assessment will take the
form of critical commentaries that analyse the text in close detail. Prescribed texts: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 0.5 course unit / 15 UCL credits / 7.5 ECTSTutor: Dr Roland-Francois LackAssessment: one 2000-word assessed essay (50%) and one 90-minute unseen examination (50%).
 Satisfactory completion of the coursework is normally a prerequisite 
for examination entry.Term: Term 2Module Description:Through close and intensive study of two key films, one from 1961 and 
one from 2012, these seminars introduce students to the methodology of 
film study, including sequence analysis, in the context of French art 
cinema between 1959 and 2012. In conjunction with the two principal 
films, ten related films will also be studied, enabling students to 
develop a comparative approach to film study.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:You should obtain, in any edition, one of the following three books:These are expensive volumes to buy new, so you might want to look for second-hand copies.You should also have your own copy of the two principal films to be studied:These films will be studied in conjunction with the two principal films:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSTotal Learning Hours: 300
Terms: Term 1 and Term 2
Tutor: Various
Assessment: Coursework (10%), Oral Examination (20%), Timed Examinations - Paper 1 
(40%): translation, reading comprehension and grammar (3 hours); Paper 2
 (30%): essay (2 hours).This
module is for Year 1 students studying German at post-A
level/-IB and for
Year 2 students who studied GERM1002 in their First Year.Module Description:This is a language module that develops a
range of core linguistic skills, including spoken and written German, reading
comprehension, and translation from German into English. The module consists of 3 components:Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This
module is for Year 1 students studying German at ab initio level.Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTS Level: First level (level 4)
Total Learning Hours: 300
Terms: Term 1, Term 2 and Term 3
Tutor: Dr Dagmar PaulusTeaching structure: This is a 3-term module (10 weeks per
term). Language learning moves from guided to more creative and independent
work. Assessment: portfolio (30%), oral examination (20%),  oral presentation (10%), one unseen three-hour written examination (40%).Module Description:This module is aimed at students with little or no knowledge
of German. The module introduces students to various aspects of the
German-speaking world as a way of enabling them to begin building communicative
abilities in German in all four language modalities: reading, listening,
writing, and speaking. Through diverse collaborative and individual tasks and
exposure to a range of topics, text types, and different socio-cultural
situations, students acquire basic strategies for reading, listening, and
writing, and for participating in every-day conversations. In the process they
will learn to use with some confidence major sentence patterns and grammatical
features of German as well as high-frequency vocabulary of everyday life.
Integration of current technology (e.g., the Internet, e-mail, video)
familiarises students with the German-speaking world while at the same time
enhancing language learning.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: We also
recommend:   Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First level (level 4)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 2
Tutor: Dr Jeff BowersoxTeaching Structure: Term 2. 2-hour weekly
seminar taught in English, consisting of lectures, class discussions, and
student presentations. Moodle to be used as a repository for reading materials
as well as for preparatory assignments.Teaching Structure: One class presentation; one set of practice questions.Assessment: One take-home exam in Term III (100%).Module Description:In this course students
 will explore German history from the Middle Ages to the present day. We
 will cover major events in medieval and early modern times, including 
the German Reformation and the Thirty Years
War, but our main focus will be on the nineteenth and twentieth 
centuries. We will engage with a variety of topics, 
including nationalism and nation-building, revolution and reaction, 
industrialization and urbanization, changing gender roles
and social structures, empire at home and abroad, mass politics and 
culture, Germans’ roles and experiences in two world wars, Nazi racism 
and genocide, and division and unification in the Cold War world.  The 
common threads running throughout will be Germans’
persistent experimentation with defining “Germany” and the consequences 
for those variously included and excluded according to gender, class, 
religion, race, politics, and other categories. Upon successful 
completion of the class, students will be able to discuss fundamental 
trends in German historiography, will be able to make effective use of 
secondary and primary sources to make a historical
argument, and will be able to present their analysis in both written and
 oral form. Students will come away with a foundation for future classes
 as well as a basic understanding of trends that continue to shape 
German society today. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1 and Term 2 Tutor: Dr Sebastian Coxon Teaching structure: The
module is conducted through a mixture of lecture and discussion classes; one
hour per week over two terms.Assessment: one
unseen two-hour written examination (45%), one 2,500 word essay (45%) and
coursework (10%).  Module
Description: This
module gives a taste of premodern literature, taking a range of works including
medieval short stories, the first Arthurian romance in German and an early novel.
All of these texts were designed to entertain and instruct their audiences and
readers. Our aim is to understand how these dual functions worked and what such
earlier forms of literature can tell us about the history of storytelling and
poetic expression. Students
will have plenty of opportunity to learn to read medieval texts in the
original. Please
note this module is not available to students who have undertaken GERM1002.
(Most of the relevant secondary literature is in German.) Preparatory
Reading and Set Texts: · Topic I: Der
Stricker: Erzählungen, Fabeln, Reden, ed. O. Ehrismann, Stuttgart 1992etc (Reclam 8797). · Topic II: Ein
kurzweilig Lesen von Dil Ulenspiegel, ed. W. Lindow, Stuttgart 1970etc (Reclam 1687) · Topic III: Hartmann
von Aue: Erec, ed. V.
Mertens, Stuttgart 2008etc (Reclam 18530) Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 2
Tutor: Dr Memerid Puw DaviesAssessment: 1 two-hour written examination 50%; 1 assessed essay (2,500 words) 50%, for which students will have access to DVD material. Module Description:This module will examine a representative selection of German films made,
mostly before 1989, by prominent post-war directors in the Federal Republic of
Germany, such as Herzog, Wenders, Fassbinder and Tykwer. These films pay
particular attention to German history and society and we will discuss as an
ongoing theme the ways in which they reflect contemporary perceptions of
Germany and  its troubled past. The course
will thus introduce students to post-war German culture more broadly, as well
as to techniques of film analysis. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course units / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1 and Term 2
Tutor: Various
Teaching structure: All teaching for this module will be in small tutorial groups.
Assessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay (50%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (50%). **Module Description:This module introduces students to the systematic and
 rigorous study of German literature. Some of you may have done very 
little literature at school; others may be used to discussing literary 
texts. Our introductory half-module is meant to speak to both the 
beginners and the ‘old hands’. We take a selection of texts written 
between the second half of the eighteenth century and the present.An average of three weeks will be spent on each text. The module will 
focus on developing both analytical skills and essay-writing techniques.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:It is important that students acquire these texts and read them well in advance of the tutorials. Term one Term twoTranslations for ab initio students:** Please note that this Term 2
module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination.  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First level (level 4)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1
Tutor: Dr Geraldine HoranAssessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay (50%); and one unseen two-hour written examination with three essays	(50%). **Module Description:The module will provide an introduction to linguistic concepts
              and topics which help us to understand the structure and use of
              the German language in contemporary times. The fields studied in
              the module include: phonetics and phonology; inflection and derivation;
              syntax; lexical structure, lexical borrowing, and sociolinguistic
              variation. Although the main focus of the module will be on the
              German language, comparisons with contemporary English will also
              be made where relevant. Primary material will be taken from newspapers
              and magazines, television and the internet where necessary. Students
              will be encouraged to find their own examples of linguistic phenomena
              from these sources. An essential part of the module will involve
              background reading of secondary material to consolidate understanding
              of guiding linguistic theories and principles.
Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: * You should purchase a copy of this if possible.  ** Please note that this module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0
course units / 15 ECTS Level: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 300Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2 Tutor: VariousAssessment: one oral examination (25%), coursework (10%) and one 
unseen three-hour written examination (65%) consisting of the following 
three questions:Post-beginners:Beginners: Module Description: This is an intensive mandatory module for all 
students studying Italian in any Modern Languages and Modern Languages 
Plus combination, as well as for those taking single honours Italian. Students with previous knowledge of Italian are 
tested during Registration Week and streamed into groups (advanced and 
intermediate). All other students will attend the beginners' module. Teaching focuses on the development of integrated skills 
(written and oral production and reception) and on the appropriate use 
of language functions. The aim is to bring all students to post-A level 
standards of communicative competence in Italian in its linguistic, 
socio-linguistic and pragmatic aspects by the end of the academic year. Set Texts:You will be placed in a language group appropriate to your level of Italian at the start of term.Essay/ Oral Grammar/Translation (All Students) All students must own a bilingual dictionary. We recommend Oxford Paravia Italian Dictionary English-Italian Italian-English, Milan, Paravia Bruno Mondadori Editori, 2001 (or a later edition). Books can be purchased from the Italian Bookshop (http://www.italianbookshop.co.uk/) with a 10% discount.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2  Tutor: Professor John DickieAssessment: one unseen two-hour written examination 
(100%) plus two formative commentaries (600 words each)Module Description:In July 1943, Allied armies invaded Sicily, leading to the
collapse of Mussolini's Fascist regime. Thereafter, Italy lived through perhaps
the most tumultuous period in its history. As the Allies and Nazis battled it
out, the resistance and recalcitrant Fascists fought a civil war behind the lines.
With the Liberation came new expressive freedoms, but also social conflict and
economic crisis, and the difficult process of constructing the political ground
rules for the post-war Republic. When the Cold War began in 1947, Italy, which
had the largest Communist Party in Western Europe, found itself on the front
line. Meanwhile, as the first signs of economic recovery appeared, Hollywood,
and American culture generally, fuelled new aspirations. This course
studies the cinema and literature that reflected many of the issues of the
decade following Mussolini's fall. It will also serve as an introduction to the
study of narrative in film and literature more generally. The themes covered may
include: realism and 'Neorealism'; ideological conflict and propaganda; the
legacy of the resistance; consumerism and glamour.  Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:  Our reading will
concentrate on a selection of the following books:

Background reading Prescribed
filmsAll films studied during the module are
available to borrow from the Italian Departmental office and have English
subtitles. There will also be showings timetabled during the first term. The
precise films studied may vary, but will certainly include the following:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Oscar SchiavoneTeaching structure: Introductory 
lectures in the first half of the first term on Dante’s life and times will be 
followed by readings from the text itself.Assessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (100%). Module Description:In this module, we engage with one of the most famous works in European literature: Dante's Inferno. We will begin by briefly reviewing the life and times of Dante Alighieri (1265-1321): his career in literature, and his experiences in the social world of medieval Florence, and later as a political refugee after he was exiled from his home town. All of this prepares us for reading the Inferno, the first part of Dante's great narrative poem, the Commedia, telling of a journey through the afterlife from hell to heaven. It is a poem that has fascinated readers for nearly 700 years, with its vivid language immersing us into a compellingly imagined otherworld. The Inferno is at once a ghost story, a quest, a road-trip, a love story, a virtual reality, and a spiritual vision - though as we will discover, each of these terms requires definition in the context of medieval life and thought. In the first weeks, we will explore the general form of Dante's Inferno and get to grips with some of his leading ideas and his writing style. Classes will combine introductory lectures with close reading of selected passages from the Inferno, corresponding to the lecture topic. In the second part of term we will concentrate more closely on reading sections from the poem, improving analytical and interpretive skills via seminar-style discussions and informal presentations. These classes will provide opportunities to focus especially on the 11 canti that have been selected for close study, from the 34 canti that make up the complete Inferno. The set canti are: canti 1, 4, 5, 10, 13, 15, 19, 26, 27, 33 and 34.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:These will be circulated at the first lecture.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2Tutor: Professor Robert LumleyAssessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (100%); one compulsory but not assessed essay; and one compulsory but not assessed commentary.Module Description:The premise of the module is that it is impossible to understand Italy today without knowing how the country was unified in the first half of the 19th century - what is called 'the Risorgimento'. It introduces the protagonists of this epic: Mazzini, Garibaldi, Cavour, Verdi, and Manzoni, and looks at the part played by literature, and music as well as politics in the national cause. We examine how questions that still preoccupy Italians - the divisions between North and South, corrupt politicians, the power of the Church, - all originate in this key historical moment. Contemporary visual materials and documents are used, together with films on the Risorgimento. The content and the methods of study provide an excellent grounding for other modules in history, visual culture, cinema and literature taught in the department and across UCL.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(ITAL1116A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars
take place at the same times as ITAL1116.)Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1  Tutor: Dr Marta NiccolaiAssessment: ITAL1116: two 2,000-word essays (50% each).ITAL1116A: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module Description:This module is an overview of Italian culture during Fascism. It gives
an introduction to the literature, art, and cinema during Mussolini’s
dictatorship (1922-1943) and provides an understanding of the relationship
between Italian intellectuals and the Fascist State, the places, institutions,
and events (Accademia d’Italia, Littoriali della cultura e
dell’arte, etc.) for the production of culture during the regime, and
issues of censorship and cultural propaganda. It also considers Italy’s
cultural relationships with other countries during the Fascist regime, looking
at international exchanges and initiatives, translations of foreign books into
Italian, and the look of foreigners visiting the peninsula.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:The
following texts provide the general historical and cultural context for the
understanding of literary and visual productions analyzed during the module,
and also set the terms for broader debates, themes, and questions.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(ITAL1118A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars
take place at the same times as ITAL1118.)Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Lisa SampsonAssessment: ITAL1118: one 2000 word essay (50%); one unseen two-hour written examination (50%).ITAL1118A: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module Description: The ‘Renaissance’ refers
to the rebirth of classical culture and is associated with a period of innovation
in Italy across the arts and sciences. This introductory module allows students
to broaden their understanding of this key period of Italian civilization by
exploring the politics, society and culture from the late 14th to
the 16th centuries. The module discusses a variety of topics, such
as the political landscape, the rise of the papacy, the role of the family and
friends,  the Medici, humanism and education, and the
changing status of artists. Students will also have the opportunity to study
two of the most significant works of the period both linked to the Medici
dynasty of Florence. Machiavelli’s Prince
(1513) presents a fascinating and still very relevant analysis of the darker
aspects of political life; Vasari’s Lives
of the Artists (1550; 1568) is an
influential history of art, with vivid biographies of artists like Giotto and
Michelangelo and perspectives on their masterpieces. The module will be taught
by a combination of formal lectures and seminars and may involve a study trip
to the V&A museum.    All primary Italian
materials will be available in English translation to accommodate the
requirements of ab initio students,
but may also be read in the original Italian.   Preparatory reading
and set texts   Set texts* · Machiavelli, Niccolò, The Prince (preferred edition by Quentin Skinner and Russell Price
(Cambridge, 1988)) · Vasari, Giorgio, The Lives of the Artists, transl. with intro. and notes by Julia
Conaway Bondanella and Peter Bondanella (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1998)
(or any edition that includes the Prefaces, Giotto, Masaccio, Raphael and
Michelangelo) [*the Italian texts can both be accessed online: http://www.bibliotecaitaliana.it/] Background
reading/viewing · Najemy, John M., ed., Italy in the Age of the Renaissance (Oxford: Oxford University
Press, 2004)  · Hay, Dennis and John Law, Italy in the Age of the Renaissance (London: Longman, 1989) · Burke, Peter, The Italian Renaissance: culture and society in Italy, 2nd edition
(Oxford: Polity Press, 1999) · Cole, Alison, Art of the Italian Renaissance courts: virtue and magnificence
(London: George Weidenfeld and Nicolson, 1995) · F. W. Kent and Patricia Simons, with J. C. Eade,
eds, Patronage, Art, and Society in  Renaissance Italy (Oxford: Clarendon, 1987) · Najemy, John M., A History of Florence,
1200-1575 (Oxford: Blackwell, 2006) · Skinner, Quentin, Machiavelli: A very short introduction, 2nd edn (Oxford: OUP, 2000)
 · Grendler, Paul F., ed., Encyclopedia of the Renaissance, 6 vols (New York: Scribner’s,
1999) [informative longer entries for reference] · Web Gallery of Art: http://www.wga.hu/
(look at works by Giotto, Masaccio, Raphael and Michelangelo) Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0
course units / 15 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 300 Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2 Tutor: Dr Eleanor ChiariAssessment: two essay questions weighted 50% (2,500 words) and 50% (2,500 words)Available to: available
only to BA Language & Culture students, not to affiliates.Module Description: This interdisciplinary module
introduces students to theory and methods that will be useful across languages
and departments in and beyond SELCS. Topics covered will include general
introductions to cultural studies, visual culture, translation studies, gender
studies, postcolonial studies, sociolinguistics and intercultural communication
among others. The course also includes practical training from conducting oral
history interviews, to analysing a wide range of media sources (from films to
advertising), to museum field trips.  The second term will see
students prepare independent research projects in teams, which they
present to classmates and a panel of 'judges'. Students are encouraged to
participate in weekly discussions, on-line fora and learn as much from the
lecturer as from their multi-talented and multilingual classmates. Optional preparatory reading:  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: First level (level 4)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr
Ana Cláudia Suriani da SilvaAssessment: One 2,500-word
coursework essay (50%) and one unseen desk exam (50%)Course description:This course aims to introduce students to both the Brazilian novel and
its cultural, social, literary and historical contexts from the 19th
to the beginning of the 20th century. The module will explore
different traditions of novel writing in Brazil, place the emergence of
Brazilian novel in relation to the contemporary European novel, and introduce
students to a range of important discussions about the novel as a genre, its
cultural function, its audiences, and its relation to the social world.Method of delivery:Lectures
and seminars convened and facilitated by the individual course tutor.
Occasional guest lectures may be included in order to help expose students to
new scholarship especially from Brazil. The module is supported by an
individual course Moodle site. All course information will be made available
via Moodle. Primary texts for lectures and seminars will be made available via
Moodle. There will be film screenings of existing adaptations of the works
under study.Aims of the module:You may start reading the primary texts for this course
before classes begin. Primary texts (in English translation):Adaptations:  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course units / 15 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4)Total Learning Hours: 300Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2Tutor: Dr Joana Rita RamalhoTeaching structure: The class meets 4
hours per week in two 2-hour classes. The teaching is divided into four main
components: Oral, Grammar, Translation into
Portuguese and Translation into English. Other
skills, such as listening and reading comprehension and writing skills, are
included in each of the four components.Assessment: Final Desk Exam with components
of Grammar, Composition in Portuguese, Translation into Portuguese and
Translation into English (50%); Oral
Exam (20%); Coursework (30%). The coursework consists
of two grammar quizzes, two oral presentations, two writing exercises
in Portuguese, two translations into Portuguese, and two translations into
English. The breakdown for coursework marks is 3% for each component.  Module Description:Taken over two
terms, this is an intensive ab initio course designed for students who
have had little or no exposure to Portuguese. It aims to take you from basic to pre-intermediate level, matching
the linguistic ability of level A2 of the Common European Framework of
Reference for Languages (CEFR), with some aspects of B1 also being explored. The general language class provides
a friendly atmosphere where you can practice and gradually build up confidence
in spoken and written Portuguese. Both the
European and Brazilian varieties are explored. The
intensive grammar classes establish the foundations for the reading and translation of more advanced texts. The
translation classes equip you with the
relevant competences to tackle translations of literary and non-fiction texts
from Portuguese into English. They will also help you work towards accurate
translations from English into Portuguese. Over the two terms, you will hear
about some key Lusophone writers, artists, contemporary and historical
personalities, watch carefully selected video materials, and familiarize yourself
with some of the key media outlets of the Lusophone world. By the end of the
module, you will be able to communicate fluently in a wide range of everyday
situations, hold conversations on routine topics, write and translate
simple texts into Portuguese, and read and translate more advanced Portuguese texts
into English. You will be acquainted with key aspects of the Lusophone
culture(s) across the globe, and feel stimulated to establish connections
between the language classes and the
literary and intellectual worlds explored in the PORT content modules. We will encourage you to work
over the summer to ensure that you start Year 2 with confidence.Course materials:  Your tutor will make use of a combination of online
resources, grammars, textbooks and other materials. You are asked to bring the following
books to class. Whilst the library has copies for reference or short loan,
purchasing these materials is strongly recommended for use in class and at home: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(PORT1226A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The module  takes place at the same times as PORT1226A.)Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: First level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Zoltán BiedermannAssessment:PORT1226: one 2,500 word coursework essay (50%) and a two hour unseen desk exam (50%)
PORT1226A: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module Description:This module introduces students to Portuguese literature
with an emphasis on canonical texts and their historical contexts. The first
part is dedicated to the origins and first apogee of Portuguese as a literary
idiom. From Galician-Portuguese poetry, the module proceeds to three sessions
on the various facets of the sixteenth century, and concludes with the
prophetic tradition that informed António Vieira’s writing in the seventeenth
century. Thus the first part of the module collects references to an apparently
perennial tension in Portuguese literature between imperial glory on the one
hand, and loss on the other. This tension, it is argued, is to some extent
constitutive of the Portuguese literary tradition. But it also calls for a
critique, as the second part of the module demonstrates. In weeks 6-10 students
will read modern authors who, whilst reflecting upon the decay of Empire, are
most notable for personal narratives of fragmentation and loss. Materials will
be available in English translation. All secondary readings for the classes
will be in English.Companion:Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: SCAN1001: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSSCAN1001A/SCAN1001B:  15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: First Level (Level 4)
Total Learning Hours: 
SCAN1001: 300  SCAN1001A/SCAN1001B: 150

Term: SCAN1001: Full Year  SCAN1001A: Term 1 SCAN1001B: Term 2

Tutor: Dr Anne GrydehøjAssessment: SCAN1001A: 100% coursework. 
SCAN1001/SCAN1001B: one unseen three-hour written examination
(50%); one oral examination (30%); and course assessment (20%).Teaching Structure: 2x 2-hour seminar per week, consisting of tutor-led
discussions, communicative exercises and student presentations. Moodle to be used as a repository for reading
materials as well as for preparatory assignments and forum discussions.Module
Description:The module
aims to: strengthen the individual student’s awareness of different strategies
and methods for language learning; be goal-oriented in the work with the
language skills: speaking, understanding, writing and reading and with the
basic elements pronunciation, vocabulary and grammar; enable the students to
express themselves about everyday topics in speech and writing, to understand
everyday conversations, and to read texts of a reasonable level of difficulty.Class work
is communicative and task-oriented, encouraging students to be active
participants, to take responsibility for their own learning and to see work
outside class as an integrated part of classroom teaching.Preparatory
Reading and Set Texts:Textbooks:
The tutor's own material will be used (textbook tba), along with various texts,
video and audio materials, and exercises made available on the Moodle site. Grammar: It
is recommended that students have their own copy of R Allan, P Holmes & T
Lundskær-Nielsen, Danish: An
Essential Grammar (Routledge 2011).Dictionaries:
Dansk-engelsk ordbog
& Engelsk-dansk ordbog
(Gyldendal) or similar. Make sure that the dictionary gives you the gender of
nouns.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of 
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the 
academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: SCAN1002: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSSCAN1002A/SCAN1002B:  15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: First Level (Level 4) Total Learning Hours: SCAN1002: 300  SCAN1002A/SCAN1002B: 150 Term: SCAN1002: Full Year  SCAN1002A: Term 1 SCAN1002B: Term 2 Tutor: Jelena CalicAssessment: SCAN1002A:100% coursework.SCAN1002/SCAN1002B:one unseen three-hour written examination (50%); one oral
examination (30%); and one module assessment (20%).Module Description:The module aims to teach students basic vocabulary, grammar and sentence patterns
so as to enable them to read elementary Swedish texts, understand simple
everyday conversations and express themselves with some fluency in both speech
and writing. By
the use of a variety of techniques the students will gradually become
acquainted with spoken and written Swedish and develop the skills necessary to
express themselves in the language.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Textbook
and grammar to be announced in the first week of the Autumn Term. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSLevel: First Level (Level 4)Total Learning Hours: 300Term: Full YearTutor: Dr Elettra CarboneAssessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (50%); one oral examination (30%); and one assessment (20%).Module Description:The aim of the module is to teach the students basic communication skills in
Norwegian: speaking, reading, writing and understanding everyday
Norwegian. In class: Reading Norwegian texts. Conversation in
connection with texts and related everyday topics. Listening and
pronunciation exercises. Occasional role-play and class presentations
by individual students on topics they have prepared at home. Grammar is
explained systematically and the students are given exercises in
connection with grammatical points. At home: Reading, essay writing, translation, grammatical exercises
and occasional preparation of role-play and oral presentations. The form of Norwegian taught will be bokmål. As soon as practical, all class interaction will take place in Norwegian.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: Elisabeth Ellingsen and Kirsti Mac Donald, Norsk på 1-2-3, Cappelen Damm, 2010.One of the following grammars:DictionariesAll
 students must own a good English-Norwegian and Norwegian-English 
dictionary, one of the dictionaries must indicate the gender 
of Norwegian nouns. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSLevel: First Level (Level 4)Total Learning Hours: 300Term: Full YearTutor: Dr Helga Hlaðgerður LúthersdóttirAssessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (50%); one oralexamination (20%); and one assessment, in the form of a language portfolio (30%).Module Description:This module aims to give
students insight into the Icelandic language, its structure and history. The module equips students with a basic knowledge of Icelandic, both written and
spoken, so that they will be able to read elementary texts, engage in simple daily
conversation, and pursue further studies in the modern language. Students will gain
knowledge of the fundamentals of Icelandic grammar, vocabulary, sentence
structure and pronunciation. Modern texts will be studied as well, and students
will practice both spoken and written Icelandic to develop their skills in
expressing themselves in Icelandic. In addition, the module will cover in broad
outline the history of the language and contemporary ‘language politics’
(loan-words, neologisms etc.).Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:DictionariesReadings, Grammar and Exercises Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (Level 4)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Full YearConvenor: Jesper HansenAssessment:  one unseen three-hour written examination (70%); and one 2-3,000 word essay (30%).Module Description: It is essential for students following language modules at university level to have a grasp of basic linguistic 
terminology and concepts. This module focuses mainly on language as a set 
of formal, interdependent sub-systems, such as phonetics/phonology 
(sound production and sound systems), grammar in the sense of morphology
 (word-formation and word classes) and syntax (phrases, clauses, 
sentences and word order), as well as on broader aspects of language as a
 special communication system. This will initially be illustrated with 
the help of English and the knowledge thus gained will then at each 
stage be applied to the mainland Scandinavian languages (Danish, 
Norwegian and Swedish).A brief historical 
background, charting the main stages in the development of English and 
the mainland Scandinavian languages from Common Germanic to the present,
 will also be provided.By the end of the module, 
students should thus have a sound knowledge of basic phonetics and 
grammar and be able to apply this chiefly to their chosen mainland 
Scandinavian language. They will also have an overview of the basic 
phonetic and grammatical data in the two other mainland Scandinavian 
languages and of the key stages in the historical development of English
 and the Scandinavian languages.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Some handouts will be provided and other reading materials will be recommended at the start of the module.Please note that this module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (Level 4)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Jakob Stougaard-NielsenAssessment: One essay of 4,000 words (100%)
Teaching structure: Two-hour weekly seminars consisting of lectures,
class discussions and student presentations. Moodle to be used as a repository
for reading materials as well as for preparatory assignments, formative
assessments and forum discussions.  Module Description: This module aims to develop
the skills required to analyse and contextualise literary prose. The texts to
be studied are predominantly Nordic (in English translation), selected from the
long and rich tradition of Nordic folk, fairy and fantastic tales, from
Medieval ballads to Gothic tales and postmodern short stories, animated and
fantasy film. More generally, the module will investigate a variety of
narrative components (e.g. narrator, character, genre, theme), and will explore
why storytelling has been and continues to be a central human activity, how it
has changed over time and how stories reflect changing conceptions of Nordic
societies, cultures and identities. The module will introduce students to a
broad range of theories and methods in literary studies including narratology,
gender studies, print culture and monster studies. Preparatory Reading and Set
Texts: Reading materials and a guide
for locating texts to be studied in the module will be made available on
Moodle. Primary texts to be studied may include a selection of Scandinavian
folk tales, Hans Christian Andersen’s fairy tale The Little Mermaid (1837),
the Norwegian film Trollhunter (2010)
and the Swedish vampire novel, Let the
Right One In (2004). As basic text books, we
suggest you use: · Monika Fludernik, An Introduction to Narratology
(Routledge, 2009) · Andrew Bennett & Nicholas Royle, An
Introduction to Literature, Criticism and Theory (Pearson, 2009). · Marina Warner, Managing
Monsters (Vintage 1994) · Fred Botting, Gothic
(Routledge, 2014) · John Lindow, Trolls:
An Unnatural History (Reaktion Books, 2014) Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSLevel: First Level (Level 4)Total Learning Hours: 300Term: SCAN1303: Full Year (1cu), SCAN1303A: Term 1 (0.5cu), SCAN1303B: Term 2 (0.5cu)Tutor: Annika LindskogAssessment: coursework one (1,500 words, 15%); coursework two (2,500 words, 35%); coursework three (1,500 words, 15%); 2-hour written exam (35%)Assessment: SCAN1303A - coursework one (1,500 words, 30%); coursework two (2,500 words, 70%)Assessment: SCAN1303B - coursework one (1,500 words, 30%); 2-hour written exam (70%)Module Description:The module is designed to underpin a solid introduction to Scandinavian culture and language in the first year of the Department’s single and joint honours degree programmes. It is meant to introduce the study of history and of various forms of cultural production, while demonstrating the interaction between these cognate disciplines. The module also aims to contribute to the students’ intellectual and personal development by explicitly posing questions about power, ideology, authority and identity.Students will gain knowledge and understanding of:The module will provide a thoroughgoing, wide-ranging and stimulating introduction to the history and culture of the Nordic region. Taught in an explicitly interdisciplinary manner by a number of members of faculty from the Department of Scandinavian Studies, the module will invite students to reflect on the methodologies and approaches specific to different, cognate disciplines (such as History, Literary Studies, etc.), and to identify connections between them. A central concern is to emphasise the constructed nature of historical narrative, and to this end the module will be structured around a number of key dates, moving backwards and forwards in time to explore both historical causality and relevant cultural expressions of the sociological formations under investigation.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Journals: Students will also be expected to read appropriate chapters from standard history textbooks before each lecture/seminar, and to familiarise themselves with the primary materials chosen for that week. A Moodle site will allow for posting of digitised and online resources week-by-week, as well as post-seminar discussion.Please note that this module is assessed by both essay and examination (apart from SCAN1303A). In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the final essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSPG Value: 30 creditsLevel: First Level (Level 4)Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Full YearTutor: Dr Erin GoeresTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. UG Assessment: 2 x in-class tests (15% each), 1 x two-hour written exam (70%)SCAN1401A (Affiliates only): Two-hour written exam (100%)PG Assessment: Three-hour written exam (100%)Module Description:Old Norse,
the medieval precursor to the modern Scandinavian languages, was once heard
throughout Europe and beyond. During the
Middle Ages Scandinavian ships travelled west to North America and east to
Istanbul. The scope and variety of the
Old Norse literary corpus matches the remarkable span of these journeys: myths
and legends, love- and battle-poetry, prose narratives about kings,
adventurers, poets and saints are all found in Old Norse. This module will introduce students to a wide
range of Old Norse language and literature, situated within the broader context
of the history and culture of Viking and medieval Scandinavia. Students will develop a good understanding of
the basics of Old Norse grammar and by the end of the module will be able to
translate medieval Icelandic prose and some forms of poetry. They will become familiar with key texts in
the Eddic, skaldic and saga traditions, and will begin to explore ways in which
contemporary scholarship can shed light on the complex but rewarding world of
medieval literature.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Students
are advised to obtain a copy of A New
Introduction to Old Norse – Part 1: Grammar, ed. Michael Barnes (London,
2004).The two set texts will be Ari Þorgilsson’s Íslendingabók and Auðunar
þáttr in A New Introduction to Old
Norse – Part II: Reader, ed. Anthony Faulkes (London, 2008). Both volumes,
as well as the accompanying glossary, are available online at Viking Society Publications.  The
following will offer a good introduction to the subject: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (Level 4)Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Haki AntonssonAssessment: two essays of 2,000 words each
(50% + 50%)This
module introduces students to the material culture of Viking and medieval
Scandinavia. Through a series of workshops at the British Museum, British
Library and other London-based institutions, students will gain first-hand
experience working with artefacts and manuscripts from the period. These
workshops will complement a series of seminars held in the Department in which
students will examine more broadly the archaeology and history of the period,
as well as the theoretical background to the use of objects as sources for
history and culture.  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course units / 15 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4)Total Learning Hours: 300Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2Tutor: variousModule convenors: Dr Adolfo Sánchez Cuadrado & Marga Navarrete Teaching
structure:Assessment:
Final Desk Exam with components of
Grammar, Composition in Spanish, Translation into Spanish and Translation into
English (50%); Oral Exam (20%);
Coursework (30%). The coursework consists of two grammar
quizzes, two oral presentations, two writing exercises in Spanish, two
translations into Spanish, and two translations into English. The breakdown
for coursework marks is 3% for each component.Assessment 2016-17:Module
Description:This
is a post A-level first year Spanish language module, consolidating level B1
and exploring level B2 of the Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages (CEFR). By the end of the second term, students are expected to
master complex structures of written and spoken Spanish. You should be able to
communicate fluently in a variety of contexts and deal with most situations
likely to arise when travelling in a Spanish-speaking country. The Grammar and
Communicative Language Skills class provides a friendly atmosphere where you
can practice and build up confidence in spoken and written Spanish. Different
varieties of Spanish will be explored. The Translation classes equip you with
the relevant competences to tackle translations from both Spanish into English
(literary and non-fiction texts), and English into Spanish (audiovisual
materials, including a video that you will produce yourself). You will be
acquainted with key aspects of the Hispanic culture(s) across the globe, especially
in the Additional Contents and Skills classes.Please
note that there is no ab initio Spanish
language teaching in this Department. Set
Textbooks*: VV. AA. (2014),
Aula internacional 4. B2.1. Nueva edición. Barcelona: Difusión. 160
pages. ISBN: 9788415620853VV. AA. (2010), Todas
las voces B1. Curso de cultura y civilización. Barcelona: Difusión. 144
pages. ISBN: 9788484437222VV. AA. (2012), Developing
Writing Skills in Spanish. London and New York: Routledge. 372 pages.
Hardback ISBN: 9780415590822. Paperback ISBN: 9780415590839. [Digital copy
available from UCL library].VV. AA. (2011), Gramática
básica del estudiante de español. Edición revisada y ampliada. Barcelona:
Difusión. 302 pages. ISBN: 9788484437260.
 [You have the option of getting the English version: Students’ Basic
Grammar of Spanish. Revised and Expanded Edition. Barcelona: Difusión. 312
pages. ISBN: 9788484434375
] *Students are required to get a copy of each book and are expected to bring them to their respective classes according to the
weekly syllabus specified on Moodle.  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4)Total Learning Hours: 150Term/s: Term 2Tutor: Dr Gareth WoodAssessment: One 2,500 word coursework essay (50%) and a two-hour desk exam (50%)Module Description:This module will introduce students to the work
of Spain’s most ambitious dramatists of the early twentieth century: 
Ramón
María del Valle-Inclán, Miguel de Unamuno, and Federico García Lorca. 
These three writers were key figures in the flourishing of Spanish 
cultural life between the end of the nineteenth century and the outbreak
 of the Civil War in 1936, the year in which each of them died. Their 
dramatic works in particular fought against the stodgy, middle-class 
values that they believed were preventing the Spanish stage from 
becoming a focus of renewed artistic energy. Working chronologically, 
this module will examine how these three writers experimented with dramatic 
form,
the possibilities of staging, and the capacity of theatre to challenge 
its
audience to experience art in new ways.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:The set texts will be as follows:A more detailed bibliography of secondary sources will be provided via Moodle and in class.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(SPAN1213A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The module takes place at the same time as SPAN1213.)Value: 0.5 course unitsTerm: Term 1Tutor: Dr Maria Chiara D'ArgenioAssessment:SPAN1213: One 2,500 word coursework essay (50%) and a two-hour desk exam (50%)
SPAN1213A: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module Description:This
module will provide an introduction to film analysis and to key aspects of the
development of Spanish cinema. Topics examined will include: Melodrama, Film
noir, influence of Italian neo-realism, The Spanish Civil War, Censorship,
The political transition to democracy, Colonialism, Postmodernism,
Transnationalism. Films studied will include:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				****This module has been cancelled for 2017/18****Value: 0.5 course unitTutor: Dr Stephen FayAssessment: Two 2,000-word essays (each weighted at 50%) Module Description: This module introduces first-year students to key historical
moments of the 20th century in which Latin American societies and
cultures underwent significant transformations. The course explores these
transformations through the prism of some of the most significant (although not
necessarily the most well known) texts produced during this period. The
course is divided into two sections, each of which covers a different
but closely complementary theme.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Modernismo y Americanismo (weeks 6-10) Primary texts Complementary Texts:JMRDÁfrica en América (weeks 12-16)Primary Texts  Initial Complementary Texts:   Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s:  Term 2

Tutor: Dr Humberto Núñez-FaracoAssessment: One 2,500 word coursework essay (50%) plus one unseen desk exam (50%).Module Description: This course provides an introduction to 19th- and
20th-century Argentinian literature with particular attention to the dichotomy
civilisation versus barbarism. Topics examined include the conflict between the
colonial heritage and the progressive ideals of the liberal generation in the
first half of the 19th century, the participation and/or exclusion of different
ethnic groups in the process of constructing a national identity, the
appropriation of Positivist ideologies, and the emergence of cultural
nationalism in the 20th century. The texts studied will encourage in-class
debate on the role of ideology in nation-building, as well as issues regarding
race, class, and social conflict. Classes will take the form of lectures and
seminars involving discussion and close analysis of the texts studied. N.B. This course
is taught in Spanish (seminar discussions are held in English)Methodology:All classes combine an initial lecture of approx.
45 mins followed by a reading seminar (group discussion). There will be a
5-minute pause in-between. Students are kindly requested to read in
advance the corresponding texts for each week. Following each
lecture/seminar, full class notes will be posted on Moodle. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Course schedule:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: First Level (level 4)  Total Learning Hours: 150  Term/s: Term 2Tutor: Dr Macarena Jiménez NaranjoAssessment: One 2,500 word coursework essay (50%) and a two-hour desk exam (50%)Module Description:This module studies the representation
of the Mexican revolution in literature and muralism. We will cover the
life-course of a phenomenon that, although an extremely violent, costly and
lengthy period was simultaneously, as Octavio Paz has stated ‘a sudden
immersion of Mexico in her own being’. Mexico’s Revolution brought about
violent but also social, political and cultural change. It shook the entire
country from top to bottom and has been an obsession in culture, arts and
literature ever since. During the course we will cover both the revolution’s
armed struggle (a chaotic and violent period spanning the years 1910-1920), and
its institutional phase ranging from about 1920 to 1946. This course examines
artistic manifestations that look both analytically and critically at the Revolution
and its consequences. We will discuss works such as Los de abajo,
which was written in 1915, right in the midst of armed struggle, through to
novels published in the 1980s, such as Como agua para chocolate.
The course also focuses on the important role that visual culture played in
legitimising the Revolution and creating a sense of national identity which
included the poor and marginalised, for example through the work of muralists
like Diego Rivera. By examining the cultural responses to the Mexican
Revolution, this course seeks to analyse how the Revolution is mythologized,
explained, critiqued and justified in literature and culture, how it depicts
disillusionment with its promises, and issues of race, class, gender and
sexuality as they relate to Mexican history.   Texts: Mariano Azuela, Los de
abajo (1915)Mexican Muralism – (from 1920)Ángeles Mastretta, Arráncame la vida (1986)Juan Rulfo, El llano
en llamas – (1953)Laura Esquivel, Como agua para chocolate (1989)Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Term 1 Tutor: Professor Stephen HartAssessment: One 2,500 word coursework essay (50%) plus one unseen desk exam (50%).Module Description: This module analyses the expression of the
supernatural in Latin American culture, with particular reference to the ways
in which the economy of the supernatural is contrasted with natural law, how it
is understood and valued by individuals and specific social groups.

  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Term 2 

Tutor: Dr Tyler FisherAssessment: One 2,500-word coursework essay (50%) and one unseen desk examination (50%)Module Description:This module provides
a broad introduction to an important Spanish poetic genre, the romance or
Spanish ballad. The module traces the conventions of this verse form across six
centuries, from those composed on the frontier between Moorish and Christian
Spain, to those that evolved in the New World and those that reflect
avant-garde aesthetics in the early twentieth century. This involves critical
commentary on particular texts and broader study of the romancero in
its varying cultural contexts. Students will have the opportunity to analyze
recurring motifs and to identify innovations in this enduring genre, while
honing their critical writing skills. A creative component of this module
encourages students to engage with the ballad tradition by composing their own
imitative romances.The
course tutor convenes and facilitates lectures and seminars. All course
information will be made available via Moodle, as well as many of the primary
texts for lectures and seminars. You may start reading for this module before
classes begin. Key readings are marked with an asterisk in the list of texts.Texts: *Romancero, ed. Paloma Díaz-Mas. The
Spanish Ballad in the Golden Age, ed. Nigel Griffin, Clive Griffin, et al. Romancero
tradicional de América,
ed. Mercedes Díaz Roig. *Antonio
Machado, 'La tierra de Alvargonzález'. José
Peón del Valle, Cuba victrix: Romancero de las guerras de independencia. *Federico
García Lorca, Romancero gitano.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2 Tutor: Various. The convenor is Dr Zoltán
Biedermann Teaching structure: a series of 15 one-hour lectures and 14 one-hour seminars
spread over Terms 1 and 2. Assessment: Coursework 1 (1,500 words): 40%; Coursework 2 (2,000
words) 60%Module Description: This course introduces students
to key aspects of global Hispanic history and culture from the late medieval
period to the 21st century, and acts as a foundation on which
students in the Department will build throughout the rest of their degree. It
exposes students to a wide variety of materials – poetry, prose fiction, essay
and film – and explores different ways of making sense of them through
historical contextualisation, close reading and critical analysis. Students
gain a critical appreciation of the canon of Spanish and Latin American
Studies, whilst also developing the tools to explore less canonical authors and
works. In the seminars, we will focus on discussing the primary materials and
develop key skills in reading and writing. This module is team-taught by
permanent members of academic staff, allowing students to become acquainted
with a wide range of research methods and approaches. It runs over two terms,
enabling students to engage in in-depth readings of the literary and critical
materials, including some longer texts in Spanish, and in a systematic
development of skills that will prove useful throughout their entire BA
programme. A series of films will be screened as part of the module, some of
which are studied in Term 2.  Course
materials: A list of course materials is
available on Moodle, and many of the materials will be uploaded there. Key
items will be available for purchase at the Gower Street/Tavistock Place branch
of Waterstone’s.  Set Readings and Viewings N.B.
Please ensure you come to each lecture and seminar having read or viewed the
prescribed material for that class, detailed below.Term 1 Lecture
1: Introduction (Dr Zoltán Biedermann) · Jean
Dangler, ‘Edging Toward Iberia’, Diacritics, 36: 3/4 (2006) “Theories of
Medieval Iberia”, 12-26. http://www.jstor.org/stable/20204139 Seminar 1: Introduction · Reading as for Lecture 1. Lecture 2: Society and
Literature in the Golden Age:
Lazarillo de Tormes (I) (Dr Alexander
Samson) · R. O. Jones, ed, La Vida de
Lazarillo de Tormes y Sus Fortunas y Adversidades  (Manchester: Manchester University Press, 1966). Prólogo, Tratados
1-3. · Javier Herrero, ‘Renaissance Poverty
and Lazarillo's Family: The Birth of the Picaresque Genre’ Publications of
the Modern Language Association of America (1979), 876-886. Seminar 2: Society and Literature in the
Golden Age: Lazarillo de Tormes (I) · Close reading of Prologue.   Lecture 3: Society and Literature in the
Golden Age: Lazarillo de Tormes (II) (Dr
Alexander Samson) · Tratado 5.  · Thomas Hanrahan, ‘Lazarillo de Tormes:
Erasmian Satire or Protestant Reform?.’ Hispania
(1983), 333-339. Seminar 3: Society and
Literature in the Golden Age: Lazarillo
de Tormes (II)  · Reading as for Lecture 3.   Lecture 4: Contact
and Conquest in the Americas (I)
(Dr Adrian Pearce) · Matthew Restall, ‘A Handful of
Adventurers: The Myth of Exceptional Men’, in Seven Myths of the Spanish Conquest (Oxford: Oxford University
Press, 2003), chap. 1.   Seminar 4: Contact
and Conquest in the Americas (I) · Cristóbal
Colón, ‘Carta a los Reyes’, 4 Mar. 1493, in B. W. Ife (ed.), Letters from America: Columbus’s First Accounts
of the 1492 Voyage (London: King’s College London, 1992), pp. 24-43.   Lecture 5: Contact
and Conquest in the Americas (II) (Dr Adrian Pearce) · Camilla Townsend, ‘Burying the White
Gods: New Perspectives on the Conquest of Mexico’, American Historical Review 108: 3 (June 2003), 659-87.   Seminar 5: Contact
and Conquest in the Americas (II) · Hernán Cortés Cartas
y documentos, ed. by Mario Hernández Sánchez-Barba (Mexico City: Editorial
Porrúa, 1963), pp. 58-60. · Bernal Días del Castillo, Historia Verdadera de la Conquista de la Nueva  España (Barcelona: Linkgua Ediciones, 2007), chap. 37,
pp. 153-7. · Miguel León-Portilla (ed.), Visión de los vencidos (Madrid: Dastín, 2000), chap. 8, pp. 111-14.   Lecture 6: Identity and Gender in
Colonial Spanish America (I) (Dr Adrian Pearce) · Susan Migden Socolow, ‘Women, Marriage,
and Family’, in The Women of Colonial
Latin America (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2015), chap. 5.   Seminar 6: Identity and Gender in
Colonial Spanish America (I) · Sor
Juana Inés De la Cruz, ‘Respuesta a Sor Filotea’, 1 Mar. 1691, http://www.ensayistas.org/antologia/XVII/sorjuana/sorjuana1.htm.      Lecture 7: Identity and Gender in
Colonial Spanish America (II) (Dr Adrian Pearce) · Reading tbc.   Seminar 7: Identity and Gender in
Colonial Spanish America (II) · Simón Bolívar, ‘La carta de Jamaica’, Kingston,
Jamaica, 6 Sept. 1815, available at: http://www.archivodellibertador.gob.ve/escritos/buscador/spip.php?article1268.
     Term 2 Lecture 1: Nation Building in 19th
Century Spanish America: Sab (Dr Debbie
Martin) · Gertrudis Gómez de Avellaneda, Sab, ed. by Catherine Davies (Manchester:
Manchester University Press, 2001). Seminar 1: Nation Building in 19th Century Spanish America: Sab · Doris Sommer, ‘Sab C’est Moi’, in Foundational Fictions: The National Romances
of Latin America (Berkeley: University of California Press, 1991), pp. 114-37. · Close reading section of Sab tbc.   Lecture 2: Legacies of Decline: Spain at
the Turn of the 20th Century (I) (Dr Gareth Wood) · Miguel de Unamuno, En torno al casticismo, with a particular focus
on ch.  5.
 · Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				DUTC2001 - Dutch Language 2DUTC2101 - At the Crossroads of Europe: Belgium, The Netherlands and Luxembourg in the 20th and 21st CenturiesDUTC2203 -Twentieth Century
Dutch Literature I: Themes DUTC2300 – Multiculturalism and IdentityFREN2001 - Use of FrenchFREN2002 - French OralFREN2101 - Introduction to Literary TheoryFREN2102 - The Medieval PeriodFREN2103 - The Renaissance PeriodFREN2104 - The Seventeenth CenturyFREN2105 - Enlightenment & Revolution: the 18th Century FREN2106 - The 19th CenturyFREN2107 - Exploration of Self and Form: the Contemporary Period FREN2108 - France: Culture & SocietyFREN2110 - Contesting Frenchness: Francophone LiteraturesGERM1001 - Modern German LanguageGERM1104 - Introduction to German Film since 1945GERM1106 - An Introduction to German LinguisticsGERM2002 - Modern German
Language II GERM2103 - Aspects of 20th Century German
History GERM2105 - History of the German LanguageGERM2106 - Love, Violence &
Laughter: Medieval and Early Modern German Literature and Culture up to 1740 GERM2107 - Debating
Enlightenment: Literature and Culture 1740 - 1870GERM2108 - The Challenge of Modernity: Literature and Culture from 1870 to the Present GERM2111 - Metropolen ITAL2020 - Second Year Italian Language ITAL2106 – Italian RomanticismITAL2112 – Futurism in ItalyITAL2113 - Docudrama in
Contemporary Italian CinemaITAL2116 - Fascist anti-Semitism and the Race Laws of 1938: origins, application and memory ITAL2117 - Writing Women in Renaissance ItalySCAN2001 - Intermediate
DanishSCAN2002 - Intermediate
SwedishSCAN2003 - Intermediate
NorwegianSCAN2004 - Intermediate Modern IcelandicSCAN2222 - Scandinavian
Literature in ContextSCAN2402 - Intermediate Old NorseSCAN7203 - An Extended Essay in Scandinavian StudiesSCAN7214 - Vikings and Valkyries in Contemporary Culture SCAN7310 - Politics and Society in the Nordic Countries, 1990s and AfterSCAN7405 - Viking-Age ScandinaviaSCAN7540 - Nordic CinemaSPAN2001 - Spanish Language
IISPAN2103 - What Women Want: La RegentaSPAN2109 - Women's Writing in
Latin America ISPAN2110 - Women's Writing in Latin America IISPAN2120 - The Essay in Spanish AmericaSPAN2121 - Introduction to Latin American CinemaSPAN2307 - The Subaltern in Latin American CultureSPAN2320 - The Literature of the Spanish InquisitionSPAN2400 - History of Colonial Latin AmericaSPAN2401 - History of Spain in the 20th CenturySPAN7302 - The Theatre in
Spain's Golden Age These courses are not available to joint honours students.PORT2010 - Intermediate
Portuguese PORT2201 - The Golden Age of
Portuguese Travel Literature PORT2310 - 20th-Century Brazilian Literary Works into Film These courses are not available to joint honours students.HIST6410 - History of Latin America c.1830-c.1930 Please note - this 1.0cu module is subject to availability (please be aware the History
department may not be in a position to approve/reject requests until the Friday
before the week teaching commences) and approval from the SELCS UG Tutor.  Guidance on registering for History modules.LITC2001 Imitation,
     Invention, AuthorshipLITC2002 Word, Image,
     SoundLITC2004 Urban Tales: The City in East Asian Literature LITC2005 Consumer Culture: Literature, History, Theory   Additional Comparative Literature Modules available in our partner departments.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0
course units / 15 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level
5)
 Total Learning Hours: 300
Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2 Tutor: Christine Sas and language assistantsTeaching structure: Four hours a week are devoted to extending knowledge and proficiency of language across a variety of genres and discourses. One hour per week is devoted specifically to listening and speaking tasks.Assessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (35%); one oral examination (30%); and continuous assessment including vocabulary and listening tests, essays and grammar assignments (35%).Module Description:Topics cover current affairs, debates and cultural issues in the Low Countries. Language tasks in this course require a more sustained presentation of information and argumentation, in both speaking and writing.  There are additional conversation sessions with a student language assistant.  Students are expected to take increasing responsibility for identifying their own strengths and weaknesses and for taking remedial action as appropriate. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Students should obtain a copy of Routledge Intensive Dutch Course (London/New York: Routledge 2006). In the second term, students will be required to purchase Wijze Woorden (Amsterdam: Intertaal 2002), a Dutch academic vocabulary textbook, in preparation for the year abroad.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(DUTC2101A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars
take place at the same times as DUTC2101.)Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level
5)
  Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1 Tutor: Ulrich TiedauAssessment: DUTC2101: two 1500 word essays (25% each) and one unseen two-hour written examination (50%).DUTC2101A: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Available to: While it is mainly aimed at students of Dutch, the module is open to all students with an interest in the 20th and 21st century history of these two neighbouring countries of the UK. Knowledge of Dutch is not required.Module Description: This is a module about political, social, cultural and economic change in the Benelux countries from the inter-war period to the present. Among the themes covered are: the crisis of democracy in the 1930s; collaboration, resistance and accommodation during the German occupation of World War II; Dutch, Belgian and Luxembourgian post-war politics;  the Cold War and European integration; development of the modern welfare state; cultural revolution and new social movements in the 1960s; linguistic and inter-communal tensions and federalisation of Belgium; and immigration and the recent 'crisis of multiculturalism' in the Netherlands.The module aims to:Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:The following textbook, a standard history, provides back-up to the programme (copies of which are held in the College library):For a shorter survey of the history of the Benelux countries, please check out the following work:The module uses Online teaching and learning resources that are available on Moodle.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(DUTC2203A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars
take place at the same times as DUTC2203.)Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level
5)
  Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1 Tutor: Hans DemeyerAssessment: DUTC2203: one 2500 word coursework essay (70%); and one seminar presentation (30%).DUTC2203A: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module Description: This module explores the theme of identity and community in the
literature of the Netherlands and Flanders. We will look at fiction that deals
with questions of belonging, power, diversity and mechanisms of in- and
exclusion. The module will start from contemporary reflections on the loss of a
sense of community within a context of globalization and will then return to
the beginning of the 20th century. Our module will follow the course
of history by discussing literary texts that correspond to modernism (and its
utopias), to the disillusion after World War II and to postmodernism (and its
unravelling of utopias). We will analyse processes of identification (gender,
class, religion, politics, race) and the shifts in sense of time, space and
belonging throughout the twentieth century.  The primary texts have been chosen with students' language competence in
mind. Primary
Reading may include (fragments of):- Peter Verhelst, Geschiedenis van een berg. - Ferdinand Bordewijk, Blokken - Gerard Reve, De avonden - Paul Mennes, Soap - Cees Nooteboom, Rituelen - Willem Elsschot, Het dwaallichtPlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level
5)
  Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term: Term 2 
 
 Tutor: Christine Sas Assessment: two essays weighed at 30% and 70% eachAvailable to: While it is mainly aimed at students of Dutch, the module is open to all students. Knowledge of Dutch is not required.Module Description: In this course we look at debates surrounding multiculturalism,
identity, citizenship and immigration. We look at different interpretations of
multiculturalism as philosophical perspectives on the relationships between
different cultural communities. The course explores how these perspectives have
been acted out across time and place, from the ‘melting pot’ idea in the US in
the early 20th century to governmental policies encouraging immigrants to
maintain their home language and culture. The focus will be on the changing
policies and views on the multicultural debate in the Netherlands, but this
will be set in a global context. We also explore the notions of national
identity which are evoked in the multicultural debate and look at government
and media responses to this, such as the implementation of the canon of the
Dutch history as part of the curriculum at schools. The module
explores the backlash discourses around multiculturalism which have become more
and more prominent over the last few years. Students will read
academic, media reports, and will also look at film, art and
autobiographies where appropriate.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Full yearConvenor: Marie FournierTutor: various Assessment: one unseen three-hour written exam (100%). Satisfactory attendance and 
completion of the coursework are normally prerequisites for examination 
entry.Students must pass this module to progress onto their Year Abroad.Module Description:This second-year module requires students to respond in French to a 
variety of texts and other stimuli in linguistic situations such as 
dialogue, group presentation, synopsis, judgment etc. A variety of 
topics (all linked to French or francophone culture and actualités) will
 be covered.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.  The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Full yearConvenor: Ms Marie FournierTutor: various Assessment: twenty minute oral examination (100%).Module Description:This second-year module requires students to respond in French to a 
variety of texts and other stimuli in linguistic situations such as 
dialogue, group presentation, synopsis, judgment etc. A variety of 
topics (all linked to French or francophone culture and actualités) will
 be covered.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.  The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 1 Tutor: Mr James AgarAssessment: Two essays of 2000 words each (weighting 50% each) Module Description:This course aims
to contextualise and introduce key concepts in French postwar (literary) theory
by focusing on two of the key figures involved: Michel Foucault and Roland
Barthes. Post-war (literary) theory is characterized by an explosion in the
understanding of the ways literature, culture and thought can be approached and
conceptualized. The experience of literature is connected by these thinkers and
writers to experiences of philosophy, linguistics, sociology, history,
sexuality, as well as to the other arts.The first half of
term will focus on Michel Foucault, and his investigations of the ways in which
our understanding is structured by particular configurations of knowledge, and
the assumptions and desires which drive it. In the second half of term,
the course will focus on Roland Barthes, and the ways in which his
investigations into history, myth and ideology, for example, force readers into
an active kind of reading, and makes an engagement with writing a way of
resisting a range of cultural and ideological orthodoxies. The work of both
figures will be linked by their shared concern with issues of authority and
authorship, two areas of direct concern to literary study.The course will
be taught in a combination of tutor-led discussions and student-led
presentation and seminar debates. The aim is to engage with detailed close
reading of specific theoretical texts rather than presenting a wide overview of
the proliferating field of post-war theory and its approaches.The texts listed
below are the core texts for reading
and discussion. However, some will be discussed in more depth than others,
depending on the seminar format. There will also be some supplementary and
contextualising materials which will be required reading. Secondary reading
lists will be provided via Moodle. Set texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Jane GilbertTeaching structure: The term is divided into two halves: Christianity and its Others and The Court, Courtoisie and Courtly Love.Assessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (100%).Module Description:Christianity and its OthersIn
 the eleventh and twelfth centuries, energetic European expansion (in 
particular through the Crusades in Spain, North Africa, the Middle East 
and the Eastern Christian empire of Byzantium) coincided with the 
cultural development of vernacular French literature, which found many 
of its earliest resources in various non-Christian cultures (Latin, 
Arabic, Celtic). This module will explore some of the ways in which Old
 French literary texts represent Christians and the ‘pagans’ with whom 
they come into contact in encounters dramatized as violent, erotic 
and/or burlesque. We shall study epic, romance and comic texts. We shall
 analyse the kinds of desire engaged in the differing representations of
 the pagan other, and explore also how true to life (or otherwise – 
mainly otherwise!) these literary pagans were.The Court, Courtoisie and Courtly LoveThe
 Court provides the setting for much medieval literature. Often depicted
 as a luxurious place, the epitome of elegance and refinement, it is 
also seen as a destructive environment, full of jealousy, spite and 
scandal. We shall look at examples of literature produced for courts and
 depicting the people who live there. What are the pleasures of such a 
life, and what are its constraints? To what extent is life governed by 
codes of courtesy, and what problems do these codes create? In 
particular we shall examine the code of courtly love, what it was, and 
how it was problematised in some of the key works of medieval 
literature.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Christianity and its OthersThe Court, Courtoisie and Courtly LovePlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Thibaut Maus de RolleyAssessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (100%) Module Description: This module focuses on Renaissance
discourses of love: we will read the love poetry of Pierre de Ronsard (Les Amours, 1552-84) and Louise Labé (Sonnets, 1555), as well as Marguerite de
Navarre’s collection of short stories, the Heptaméron
(1559). (We will start with Ronsard, followed by Labé, and then Navarre.)
This will be an opportunity to explore key aspects of the period: love, of
course, its different conceptions, themes and rituals; but also sex; the representation of women and of the body; imitation; petrarchism;
neoplatonism; eroticism; poetry
and the visual arts.  In doing so, we will pay particular
attention to three questions: How is it possible for a poet to do new things by
imitating other poets, and to express something apparently as intimate and
subjective as love by repeating familiar forms, words and images? What happens
when women write in forms that had traditionally been used by men, and from
passive objects of desire, suddenly become the active subjects of an erotic and
artistic discourse? What do these literary discourses teach us – or forget to
teach us – about the social and cultural history of love and sex in the
Renaissance?Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please make sure you purchase the recommended editions. Further secondary reading will be
provided in due course. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2Tutor: To be confirmed Teaching structure: SeminarsAssessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (100%).Module Description:In the first part of the course, we will read a range of plays that raise questions about female desire and the place of women in state politics, the political impact of revenge and clemency, and the role of religion. To portray power on stage is to some extent to question its foundation, and we will explore the ways theatre reflected upon the political while staging gender issues.The seventeenth-century also saw the rise of new forms of expression. In the second part of the course we will take on the new social formations of court culture under Louis XIV. Lafayette’s novel will introduce us to the claustrophobic milieu of social espionage, while La Fontaine’s witty and sophisticated animal fables will guide us through a world of savage desires. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Kevin Inston Assessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (100%).Module Description:The socially critical and
intellectually progressivist literature called 'Enlightenment writing',
published under, and against, the Ancien Régime, is much discussed for its role
in fostering the collective atmosphere of the French Revolution of 1789, as
well as the modern democratic and imperialist institutions that emerged after
the Revolution. For today’s specialists, the writings studied in this module
had little or no impact on the ensuing social institutions, but certainly helped
to give birth to the egalitarian sensibilities, values and attitudes
fundamental to modern democracies. This module studies tensions and clashes
within the anti-authoritarian or non-authoritarian modes of writing, the
hybrid, transgressive uses of genre, aesthetic preoccupations, philosophical
and political principles and social critique contained in five controversial
works, as well as the reverberation of events.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2Tutors: Dr Roland Lack and Professor Andy LeakAssessment: one assessed 2000-word essay (50%) and one two hour unseen desk examination (50%)Module Description: Concentrating
on the novel, this module examines a series of major issues in relation to
nineteenth-century literature: its relations to revolution in the aesthetic,
political and social spheres; its awareness of the world beyond the frontiers
of Metropolitan France; its focus on the seemingly real and the everyday; its
formal experimentation; its preoccupation with the new category of experience
called ‘modernité’. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 1 Convenor: Professor Andrew LeakAssessment: two-hour written examination in term 3 (covering all components of FREN2107).Student workload:  prescribed reading; secondary reading as assigned; one practice essay; other work as assigned by course tutor.Module Description:This
module will examine four French texts from the twentieth century – a novel, a
piece of ‘life-writing’ and two influential theoretical texts. The focus of the
module will be on how these texts engage with modern forms of alienation. In so
doing, it will explore the implications of their innovation at the level of
form for the representation of the self.Set Texts:Roland Barthes, Mythologies
(Editions du Seuil, 1957)Georges Perec, Les
Choses (Julliard, 1965)Annie Ernaux, La
Place (Gallimard Folio, 1983)Guy Debord, La
Société du spectacle (Gallimard, 1993, 3rd Edition) [Also
available as a PDF at:http://classiques.uqac.ca/contemporains/debord_guy/societe_du_spectacle/societe_du_spectacle.pdf]Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2Tutor: Professor Philippe MarlièreTeaching structure: The module combines 10 lectures and 10 seminar classes.Assessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (100%).  Students will make one oral presentation at the beginning of a seminar class and submit a 1,500 word practice essay.Module Description:This module discusses the question of citizenship in 
multicultural France. It tackles the issues of immigration, nationality 
and citizenship in France, and looks at the French philosophy of 
integration through the study of the French republican tradition. Other 
topics on the module include the relationship between laïcité, the 
French politicised conception of secularism, and religion. The module 
concentrates on the legal, philosophical and political components of 
French citizenship and overall attempts to answer the following 
question: how to be French?It explores 
theoretical, historical and sociological aspects of the question; old 
and recent debates which revolve around the issue of French citizenship.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:All set texts and reading material (bibliography, 
practice essay questions, etc.) will be posted on Moodle by the 
beginning of Term 1.Background reading:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2Tutor: Professor Andrew LeakAssessment: two-hour desk examination (100%)Coursework: Students may be required to complete short written assignments or give presentations in class. Satisfactory attendance at classses is a prerequisite for entry into the assessment process.Module Description:This course aims to introduce a selection of
texts from twentieth-century francophone literature, examining the formal and
aesthetic preoccupations of francophone writings politically contesting
Frenchness. This course also explores the engagement of francophone writers
with a range of topics such as alienation, identity, tradition, modernity,
colonialism, ethnicity, sexuality, language, bilingualism and biculturalism.Set Texts:Supplementary Reading:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This
module is for Year 2 students who studied GERM1001 in their First Year. It is
not available to students who studied GERM1002.Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course units / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level 5)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1 and Term 2 
Tutor: various
Teaching structure: One
hour per week will be devoted to English-German translation and a
second hour to German-English translation and reading comprehension.
Assessment: one unseen
three-hour written examination involving translation into German (30%)
translation into English (30%) and one comprehension passage (30%); and coursework (10%).Module Description:This module builds on work completed in
the first year, using translation and comprehension exercises to
enhance fluency in reading, writing and understanding contemporary
German, as well as continuing to explore its relation to English. Passages for translation and comprehension will include contemporary
literary, historical and journalistic texts.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level 5)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1
Tutor: Professor Mark HewitsonTeaching structure: Term1 2-hour weekly seminar taught in English consisting of lectures, class
discussions and student presentations. Moodle to be used as a repository for
reading materials as well as for preparatory assignments.
Course Requirement: One presentation, three thinkpieces, one practice essay
Assessment: One take-home paper (100%)Module Description:In this class, students will grapple
with the significance of the Weimar and Nazi eras for modern German history.
 Topics will include the characteristic features of Weimar culture and
politics, the origins of the National Socialist movement and its rise to power,
the National Socialists’ utopian vision and their various efforts to implement
it, and the relationship between state and society.  Students will also
consider the nature of everyday life, the persecution of Jews and other
minorities, the uses of terror, the horrific culmination of the Nazi regime’s
ideological goals in the Second World War and the Holocaust, and, finally, the
memory of the period.   Upon successful
completion of the class, students will be able to explain political and social
dynamics at work in Weimar and Nazi Germany, discuss historiographical trends
relating to the era, make effective use of secondary and primary sources, and
present a coherent historical analysis in written and oral form. This will
allow students to historicise the period and critically comment on the ways
that it continues to shape contemporary society in Germany, Britain, and
beyond.     Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate level (level 5)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: term 2
Tutor: Dr Geraldine HoranAssessment: one
assessed 2,500 word essay (50%); and one unseen two-hour examination (50%).
Three essays on topics covered in the course will be written in the
examination. You may not answer on the same topic of your assessed essay.Module Description: Have you ever wondered
where the German language came from, what it means that German belongs to the
'Germanic family of languages', or why there is High and Low German? This
module aims to provide some answers. We will chart emergence of the German
language from its pre-historic Indo-European beginnings to its establishment as
a major literary, philosophical and international language of the modern age.
The course will be divided in to four major sections: From Indo-European to Old
High German; Characteristics of Medieval German; Early New High German;
Developments in New High German the present day.   Preparatory reading and set texts:   Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level 5)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1 and Term 2
Tutor: Dr Sebastian CoxonTeaching structure: The module is conducted through a mixture of lecture
and discussion classes; one hour per week over two terms. 
Assessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay (50%); and one unseen two-hour
written examination (50%).Note: 

This module is not available to students who
took GERM1002 in Year 1 Module Description: This module will cover major
narrative texts from the Middle Ages and the Early Modern period. Consideration
will be given to both predominant themes (courtliness and heroism; conflicting
demands of love and society; transgression) and broader literary theoretical
questions (alterity; developments in medieval narrative technique; textual
in/stability).  Students will have plenty of
opportunity to learn to read medieval texts in the original. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level 5)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1 and Term 2
Tutor: Reinier van StratenAssessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay	(50%); one unseen two-hour written examination	(50%).Module Description:This module will examine a representative selection of
German literature from the Enlightenment to the late 19th century, focusing on
the question how important literary epochs, from the Enlightenment itself to
Poetic Realism, have engaged with and 'debated' the concept of Enlightenment.
The module introduces students to texts by the century's most acknowledged authors,
including Kant, Lessing, Goethe, Schiller, Eichendorff, Heine, Kleist, Büchner,
and Keller. The module thus offers a broad overview over and explicitly links
the century's most important literary and intellectual movements, while at the
same time complementing the core modules GERM2106- Love, Violence and Laughter: Medieval and Early Modern German Literature and Culture up to 1740 and GERM2108- The Challenge of Modernity: Literature and Culture from 1870 to the Present.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Recommended English translations for ab initio students will be confirmed in due
course. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level 5)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1 and Term 2
Tutor: Dr Annie RingAssessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay (50%); one unseen two-hour written examination (50%). **Module Description:This course explores some of
the most exciting - and disturbing - ideas and artworks of the fast-moving
modern age. It reflects the ways in which, from the late nineteenth-century
onwards, the German-speaking world seemed to be turned upside-down by shocking
historical events, radical ideas and new cultural forms. The works studied in
this course show how these developments could be experienced as exhilarating,
disturbing, liberating, traumatic - or all of these at once. The module begins
with writing from the German Empire after 1871, and then considers classic
texts of early modernism, to the Weimar years and the rise of Nazism, to the
Third Reich. Finally, it looks at important currents in cultural and
socio-political life of the post-1945 period.  Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:  ** Please note that this module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination.  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This
module is for Year 2 students who studied GERM1001 in their First Year. It is
not available to students who studied GERM1002.Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level 5)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1 and Term 2
Tutor:  VariousAssessment: Two take-home essays (one 1,000-word, 25%; one 1,500-word,
45%); and one twenty minute oral examination (30%). One essay will be on a
literary/cultural subject, the other on a political/historical subject. The
oral examination will be a report (Referat) on a topic set by the module tutor
and will be recorded, given in teams of four, and based on outline notes only.Module Description:This is an integrated language-culture module for second-year students. It is taught entirely in German and
designed as preparation for university-level study or work experience
during the Year Abroad. As such, it functions on two levels: 1. Content:
This module aims to provide students with the literary, cultural and
political history of the two capitals of Germany and Austria. The module will teach analytical skills in German using a number of texts,
from literary genres (poetry, drama, prose) to non-literary genres
(newspaper articles, political speeches, editorials). 2. Language acquisition:
All work for this module (reading, writing, speaking) must be done in
German. Specific language acquisition goals of the module are to:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0
course units / 15 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level
5)
  Total Learning Hours: 300
Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2
 
 Tutor: variousAssessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (65%); one 
oral examination (25%); and assessed coursework (10%). This is an intensive mandatory module for all students who are studyingItalian in any Modern Languages and Modern Languages Plus combination, as wellas for those following the single honours Italian BA.Module Description: The module assumes a satisfactory performance in the first 
year Italian language module. The aim of the module is to develop knowledge and 
use of Italian and a knowledge and understanding of Italian culture sufficient 
for students to cope successfully with the demands of their Year Abroad 
programme in Italy. In view of this, the module will also aim at developing 
increasing autonomy in student learning, including the ability to identify and 
plan individual strategies for the learning of Italian and the study of 
literary, historical and other subjects in Italian.Set Texts:A. Latino - M. Muscolino, Una grammatica italiana per tutti (Volume 2, B1-B2), Edilingua (Please note that Edilingua has just published a new edition of this book but the old version is equally fine) A. Filippone - S. Radicchi, Caccia ai tesori (B1-C1), LoescherA. De Giuli - C.M. Naddeo, Opera!, AlmaExtra material for the course will be uploaded on Moodle.Students must own 
a bilingual dictionary. We recommend Oxford Paravia Italian 
Dictionary English-Italian Italian-English, Milan, Paravia Bruno Mondadori 
Editori, 2001 (or a later edition).Books can be purchased from the Italian Bookshop with a 10% discount.  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level
5)
  Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Enrico PalandriAssessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (100%); and coursework.Module Description:This module focuses on two major Italian authors of the early 
nineteenth century. Manzoni’s promessi sposi and Leopardi’s Canti and Operette 
morali are studied in relation to the Italian debate on Romanticism and to 
European culture and society. Manzoni’s practice as a historical novelist is 
examined in the context of contemporary discussions of history and fiction. The 
links between Leopardi’s poetry and his thought are explored. Close attention is 
paid to individual texts.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:There are many good annotated editions of 
Manzoni’s I promessi sposi. Good English translations have been published by 
Dent (Everyman’s Library) and Penguin.  For Leopardi’s Canti the best commentaries are in the Meridiani (Milan,
Mondadori 1987) ed.  M.A. Rigoni. Leopardi’s
Zibaldone is now available in English., (Farrar, Strauss and Giroux,New York  2013)  On the two writers, see:  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(ITAL2112A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars
take place at the same times as ITAL2112.) Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level
5)
  Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1 Tutor: Professor Robert LumleyAssessment: ITAL2112: two 2500 word essays (50% each).ITAL2112A: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module description:The course examines
responses to modernity in Italy in the early 20th century, to phenomena such as
the rise of the city, electrification, new modes of transport, and cinema.
These developments represented a threat to values based on a traditional and
rural society, while they promised utopian possibilities of transformation. The
Futurist movement, under the leadership of Marinetti, welcomed the new in its
battle against an Italy of passatismo. It presented the world with a stream of
manifestos for change on every subject, from the visual arts to theatre,
literature, love and cooking. The course situates Futurism within a wider
cultural and historical context, paying special attention to the manifestoes
and other writings. It focuses on the visual arts and the remarkable role of
this avant-garde in inventing new forms across a range of media from painting
and sculpture to graphics and photography, and in exercising an international
influence. By looking at the careers of artists (Balla, Boccioni, Carrà,
Severini, Russolo) before, during and after their Futurist phase, the course
examines how and why they adopted different attitudes to the movement and to
the politics of nationalism and fascism espoused by Marinetti. Finally, it
reviews the international reception and exhibition of Futurist art in the 20th
and 21st centuries.
 
  Preparatory reading and set texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level
5)
  Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Carlotta Ferrara degli UbertiAssessment: 2 assessed essays of 2500 words each (50% each) Module Description:The starting point of the module will be an
introduction to the history of anti-Semitism: definition(s), evolution,
typologies. This first step will be followed by a presentation of the
historical context of the 1920s-1930s and of the characteristics of the Fascist
regime, with a particular focus on the cultural aspects. At this point it will
be possible to approach the topic of the origins and evolution of Fascist
racism and anti-Semitism and of the debates and documents leading to the Race
Laws of 1938. The application of these Laws and its practical and moral
consequences on Jewish life and identity will be analyzed following the most
recent research. Students will be given the opportunity to read primary
sources, and to reflect on the place of Fascism and Fascist anti-Semitism in
Italian history and the connection between historiography and memory. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				  Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level
5)
  Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Lisa SampsonAssessment: 2 assessed
essays of 2500 words each (50% each)Module description:Italy
was exceptional in 16thC Europe for the number and adventurousness
of the publications
produced by women. This module explores this phenomenon by looking at literary
practices and ideas on gender and women in Italy c.1380-1600 in a selection of
texts by Boccaccio, Vittoria Colonna, Veronica Franco and Moderata Fonte. These
writers will be studied in the context of significant social, historical and
intellectual shifts over the period, such as the rise of printing, the
Counter-Reformation, and challenges to Aristotelian thought on women. The
module will also consider topics related to the representation of women: sex vs
gender, the literary canon, the Renaissance debate on women (querelle des femmes), petrarchism,
religious culture, and neoplatonic ideas on beauty and love. The second part of
the module focuses particularly on 16thC Venice: it explores print
culture, literary networks, and courtesan and erotic culture. The
module builds on ITAL1118 Introduction to
Renaissance Italy, and will be taught using primary sources in Italian,
though post-beginners can refer to English translations.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level
5)
  Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 2 Convenor: Dr Eleanor ChiariAssessment: two 2000
word essays (50% each)Module description:This module builds
upon the LCUL1001 Language, Culture and Representation core course from year one (though students
are not required to have taken it to take it). The aim of this module is to get students to
practice applying cultural theory to a wide range of texts and
materials. Students will read a selection of original writings from famous
cultural theorists  as well as examples of academic applications of
these theories.  They will then be asked to do their own analysis of original
fiction/film/art in light of the theorists they have studied. Each week
they will be asked to either present on this material or to write short
non-assessed pieces of writing grappling with these theories. In addition to
discussing theory together in class  we will spend part of
every lesson assessing student writing and ideas together to polish and
perfect academic writing and critical thinking around complex academic and
visual texts.Preliminary reading list:Specific theorists will be chosen (still to be
confirmed). Students will be asked to read a selection of key texts by the
cultural theorist as well as works by scholars who make 'use' of the theorists.
They will then be given a specific work of fiction/film/photography/art and
will be asked to reflect on the ways such a piece can be interpreted in light
of the theories discussed in class. First Example:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
30
UCL credits / 1.0 course units / 15 ECTS  Level: Intermediate level (level 5)
 Total Learning Hours: 300
 Term/s: Full YearTutor: Dr Joana Rita RamalhoTeaching structure: The class meets 4 hours per week in two 2-hour
classes. The teaching is divided into four main components: Oral, Grammar, Translation
into Portuguese and Translation into English. Other
skills, such as listening and reading comprehension and writing skills, are
included in each of the four components.Assessment: Final Desk Exam with components of Grammar, Translation into Portuguese and Translation
into English (50%); Oral Exam (20%); Coursework (30%). The
coursework consists of two grammar quizzes, two oral presentations,
two writing exercises, two translations into Portuguese and two translations
into English. The breakdown for coursework marks is 3% for each
componentModule Description:Taken over two terms,
this is an intermediate course that builds on and consolidates previous
knowledge of the Portuguese language. Students must have been enrolled in the
Beginners’ course (PORT1010) offered by the department or must have otherwise
undertaken an equivalent course in a different institution or possess basic
speaking, writing, and listening skills through self-study. This module
consolidates your linguistic ability at Level B1 of the Common European
Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR), with some aspects of Level B2
also explored. By the end of the second term, students are expected to master
complex structures of written and spoken Portuguese. You should be able to
communicate fluently in a variety of contexts and deal with most situations
likely to arise when travelling in a Lusophone country. Students will be
developing skills in reading and translating short literary and non-fiction
texts in a variety of registers, including poems, short stories, novels,
newspaper articles and commentaries. Students explore the conventions of
European and Brazilian Portuguese, and can continue to develop their preference
for one or the other variety. Connections are encouraged to the materials
studied on Year 2 PORT content modules. Cultural aspects of the wider Lusophone world
will be introduced, preparing students for the Year Abroad. To learn more about
the Year Abroad, which students can spend in Brazil, Portugal, or (with work
placements) any other Lusophone country, follow this
link. We will encourage you to work over the summer to ensure that you make the
best of your stay abroad.Course materials: Your tutor will make use of a combination of online
resources, grammars, textbooks and other materials. You are asked to bring the
following book (the same as for PORT1010) to class: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(PORT2201A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The module takes place at the same time as PORT2201.)Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Intermediate Level (level 5)
 Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Zoltán BiedermannAssessment: PORT2201: one 3000 word essay (40%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (60%).
PORT2201A:1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). 
Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS. Module Description: This module
will introduce you to the critical study of Portuguese travel narratives,
geographical and ethnographic texts produced between c.1450 and 1650. We will
read a selection of translated primary texts narrating travels, encounters and
confrontations with extra-European cultures, accompanied by a selection of
secondary literature highlighting the quandaries of the genre’s intertwinements
with imperial expansion and the making of colonial societies in Brazil, Africa
and Asia. To highlight the unique characteristics of Portuguese travel writing,
the course covers the entire globe, but some emphasis will be placed on early
colonial Brazil and the East Indies. The secondary readings will help us to
reflect on questions of literary invention, appropriation and stereotyping in
the representation of other cultures. At the same time, we shall also examine
how travel accounts can function as historical sources and promote a better
understanding of the world that produced them.Please note that this Term 2
module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Primary texts in English translation: Further titles tba. Excerpts from all materials will be available
through Moodle. Please contact the tutor if you wish to read materials in
advance.Core secondary bibliography: Companions to the study of travel writing in general: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Intermediate Level (level 5)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Ana Cláudia Suriani da SilvaAssessment: 1,500 word coursework essay (30%), 15 minute oral presentation in pairs (30%), 2 hour desk examination (40%). Module Description: This module introduces students to 20th-century Brazilian literature and the cinema of Brazil through four novels and their adaptations into film. They reflect key themes of Brazilian literature and cinema: the city, the malandro, the backlands of the Northeast, urban violence, immigration, drought, popular culture and religion, going from Neo Realism and Cinema Novo to today. In addition to providing students with clearer understanding of the history, culture, and socio-economic realities of 20th century Brazil, this module seeks to explore how novels are adapted and interpreted for the screen and to address the question of how can studying film adaptation allows us to better understand what it is that literature does, and vice versa.Method of delivery:Lectures and seminars convened and
facilitated by the individual course tutor. There will be film screenings of
the adaptations and documentaries.Aims of the module:Intended learning outcomes:Upon successful completion of the
course, students are expected:You may start reading the primary texts for this course
before classes begin.Key Texts and films films:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 300Term: Full Year Convenor: Dr Anne GrydehøjTeaching structure: The module will consist of exercises and various
tasks including text-reading and discussion. The various activities will
continually be evaluated and adapted to best suit students’ needs.
 Assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (50%); one oral
examination (30%); and module assessment (20%). Module Description:  The module aims to: build on
and improve students’ strategies and methods for language learning; build on
and improve students’ language skills in speaking, understanding, writing and
reading including basic elements of pronunciation, vocabulary and grammar; enable
the students to express opinions and discuss various topics with some fluency
in both speech and writing, and to understand and read authentic Danish texts
at increasing levels of difficulty. Preparatory Reading and Set
Texts: Texts: The textbook Ordet
er frit (Birte Langgaard; Gyldendal: 2004) will be used, along with various
texts, video and audio materials, and exercises made available on the module
Moodle site. Grammar: It is recommended
that students have their own copy of R. Allan, P. Holmes & T.
Lundskær-Nielsen, Danish. An Essential Grammar (Routledge, 2011). Dictionaries: Dansk-engelsk
ordbog & Engelsk-dansk ordbog (Gyldendal) or similar. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 300Term: Full YearTutor: Ms Annika Lindskog Assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (50%); one oral
examination (30%); and one module assessment (20%).Module Description: The module aims to build on and
improve the students’ existing knowledge of Swedish so as to enable them to
read Swedish texts, understand everyday conversations, and express themselves
fluently in both speech and writing. Through the use of a variety of
techniques (such as study of various types of text, grammar exercises,
translation, conversation on everyday topics, etc.), the students will
gradually improve their spoken and written language.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Texts To be announced at the beginning
of the Autumn Term.    Grammar Dictionaries Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 300Term: Full YearTutor: Dr Elettra CarboneAssessment: one unseen written examination (50%); one oral examination (30%); and one module assessment (20%).Module Description: The module aims to build up and improve the students’ existing knowledge of Norwegian (bokmål), to enable them to read Norwegian (bokmål)
texts, understand everyday conversations, and express themselves well
enough in speech and writing to cope with life at a Norwegian
university in their third year. Besides using the chosen textbooks and workbooks (Mer norsk and Klart det!), once a week students will work a variety of original texts (newspaper articles, short essays, websites, blogs, short documentaries, and film clips) to strengthen their written and oral comprehension skills. Texts will form the basis of class discussion. Written tasks will be assigned as homework from week to week to consolidate the vocabulary encountered in class. Student
participation is essential and there will be conversation and
discussion of general topics, plus translation and listening
comprehension.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: Textbook  GrammarDictionaries All students must own a good
Norwegian-English and English-Norwegian dictionary. One of the
dictionaries must indicate the gender of Norwegian nouns. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 300Term: Full yearTutor: Dr Helga Hlaðgerður LúthersdóttirTeaching structure: The module is taught by
classroom instruction using texts which illustrate everyday life in Iceland,
past and present, and literary texts. As well as taking active part in lessons
the student will be expected to work on short compositions and essays, read
excerpts from several modern Icelandic literary texts, and participate in class
discussions in Icelandic.Assessment: one unseen written examination (50%); one oral examination (30%); and 
one assessed coursework in the form of language portfolio (20%).Module Description: This module aims to
develop the student’s ability to speak and understand, read and write Icelandic
up to an advanced level and to deepen their understanding of the grammar of the
language. Particular attention will be given to impersonal and passive
constructions and to the use of the subjunctive.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Recommended dictionaries Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1Convenor: Dr Elettra CarboneAssessment: One assessed essay (4,000 words; 100%).Module Description: This module aims to introduce students to some of the major
Nordic literary texts (prose, drama, lyric) from 1800 to the present day. The
aim is to develop students’ familiarity with a range of theoretical approaches
to literature by way of considering the works under the four themes of Crime,
Gender, City and Nature. Students will have the opportunity to read texts
written in their chosen Scandinavian language as well as to familiarise
themselves with texts in other Scandinavian languages (for those with no
previous knowledge of a mainland Scandinavian language, all texts will be available
in English translation). Students registered for the BA in Scandinavian Studies
MUST familiarise themselves with the set texts written in their chosen language
in the original language.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:The following texts or similar will be studied in the module: Henrik Ibsen, A Doll's House; August Strindberg, Miss Julie and Other Plays; Knut Hamsun, Hunger; Halldór Laxness, The Atom
Station; Jørgen-Frantz Jacobsen, Barbara; a  selection of nature poems from the nineteenth century; Dan Turèll, Murder in the Dark; extracts from Benny Andersen, The Contract Killer; Erlend Loe, Naïve. Super; extracts from Jan Kjærstad, The Seducer; Jonas Hassen Khemiri, Invasion!Suggested
background reading: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Full YearTutor: Dr Erin GoeresTeaching structure: Classes will take the form of seminar-style discussions
in which the translation of key passages will be set within the wider context
of Old Norse literary criticism and current scholarly debate.Assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (70%); and one 2,500 word essay (30%).Module Description:This module will build on ‘An Introduction to Old Norse’ and will continue
to familiarise students with the language and literature of Viking and medieval
Scandinavia. The first term will focus
on the development and characteristics of the Icelandic saga, while the second
term will explore the mythological treatise Snorra
Edda and the use of Old Norse mythology in eddic and skaldic poetry.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Nearly all
translation passages will be taken from A
New Introduction to Old Norse – Part II: Reader, ed. Anthony Faulkes
(London, 2008). Students are also advised to review topics covered previously
in A New Introduction to Old Norse – Part
1: Grammar, ed. Michael Barnes (London, 2004) before the start of term.
Both volumes, as well as the accompanying glossary, are available online. 
 Set texts
from the Reader will include Njáls saga and Íslendinga saga in the first term, and Skáldskaparmál and Þrymskviða in the second 
term. Additional material will be provided in class.It is strongly recommended that
students read the entirety of Njáls saga in
translation (available in Penguin Classics, The
Complete Sagas of Icelanders or similar) before the start of term. Useful secondary sources include: Useful reference works:Please note that this module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1Tutor:  Dr Helga Hlaogerou LuthersdottirAssessment: one assessed 4000 word essay (100%).Module Description:Norse myths and medieval sagas have been the
source for “popular” cultural trends since the first nationalistic approach of
the Romantics in 19th century Europe. Today, such Norse-based representations
have established a distinct visual and thematic identity within popular culture
transcending national and cultural boundaries. Through study of the source
myths combined with theoretical analysis of various popular texts such as
fantasy and graphic novels, comic books, film, music, video games and MMORPGs
(massively multiplayer online role-playing games), this module will guide students
to situate these depictions within a larger theoretical framework of Nordic
studies and cultural theory, while simultaneously
enabling them to analyse their own relationship with the various
representations of the “popular Norse”.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Primary TextsFilmsSecondary TextsAdditional texts will be introduced as the module progresses. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSPG Value: 30 UCL credits UG Level: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 2
Convenor: Dr Mart KuldkeppTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. UG Assessment: One unseen two-hour written examination (60%); and one 2,500
word essay (40%)PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%)Module
Description:The Nordic
countries have often been regarded as ‘model’ societies, famous for their high
levels of economic prosperity, social equality and political stability. We will
discuss the historical roots of this distinctive ‘Nordic’ experience and how it
has changed since the end of the Cold War, as the Nordic countries have needed
to adopt to new regional, Europe-wide and global developments. This historical
introduction will be followed by a thematic examination of contemporary Nordic
societies in a comparative perspective, looking at the varied legacies of the
‘Nordic model’. Topics to be covered include Nordic foreign and security
policy, domestic politics and the rise of the populist right, immigration and
integration, crime and justice, gender equality, environmentalism and Nordic
co-operation. It should be noted that a focus on the Nordic countries will also
provide a new perspective on some of the most important developments affecting
the whole of Europe over the last 25 years. Preparatory reading and
set texts: There
are no set texts.  
 
 Notes: This Term 2 module is assessed by both essay and
examination. In order to allow students full coverage of the module, the
deadline for submission of the essay is the beginning of Term 3. In practice,
this will leave no or, at best, limited time to receive feedback on the essay
before the examination.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 300Term: Full YearTutor: Dr Haki AntonssonTeaching structure: The module will be taught through a combination of lectures and seminars.This module is also available as two one-term options, respectively:SCAN7405A - 0.5cu (Term 1)
SCAN7405B - 0.5cu (Term 2)Assessment: SCAN 7405 is assessed by one unseen three-hour written examination (50%); and two 2,500 word essays (25% each).Parts A and B are each assessed by 2 essays each of 2500 words (50% each)Module Description:The module will examine society and culture in Scandinavia in the period ca. 800-1100. Geographically the module will encompass Sweden, Denmark Norway, and the Norse colonies in the North Atlantic (the Faroes, Iceland, and Greenland). In the case of Iceland the time-span will extend to the end of the Commonwealth period (ca. 1262). The principal themes that the module will cover include: the causes of the Viking Age; the development and emergence of the three Scandinavian kingdoms; the nature of the pre-Christian religion; the conversion to Christianity; the development of Church organisation; relation with Europe, in particular the Insular world and the beginning of written culture. Particular emphasis will be placed on presenting and analysing the various source-categories relevant to Viking-Age Scandinavia. These include, for example, runic inscriptions, place-names, archaeological evidence and saga literature.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Claire ThomsonAssessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay (30%); and one assessed 4,000 word project (70%)Module Description:This module has two main objectives: (a) to enable students to develop the skills to analyse films as
texts in their cultural and historical contexts, and (b) to provide an overview
of the development and range of Nordic film as art and industry, within the
broader context of European film history. The module is structured into three blocks, respectively covering early and silent cinema in Denmark, Norway and Sweden; three Nordic auteurs, Dreyer, Bergman and Kaurismäki; and the notion of contemporary 'small-nation cinema', covering Icelandic film, Dogme 95, intercultural cinema and transnational co-production.The module consists of a weekly two-hour (approx) film screening with introduction, followed the next day by a two-hour seminar.  Students are expected to undertake
preparatory reading for lectures and seminars, to attend all
screenings and seminars, and
to watch additional films as necessary. A detailed course outline and week-by-week reading is available on the
module moodle site (UCL user id and login required).The first essay tests students' grasp of film analysis and their ability to apply it to particular films. The second piece of assessment is a project which is independently designed and researched by the student on a topic of his/her choice, under the guidance of the module tutor. Former students of the module have been able to publish outstanding project work under the auspices of the Norvik Press student writings series - see Framed Horizons below.No knowledge of a Scandinavian language is required as all films are subtitled (though a reading ability in a Scandinavian language does give access to a broader range of primary and secondary materials). Students from outside Scandinavian Studies are welcome to enrol, subject to available space.Key texts:  A week-by-week reading list is provided at the start of the module. Students are not expected to buy or read all of the texts below in advance; this list is indicative only.Weekly film screenings:Afgrunden (The Abyss, dir. Urban Gad, Denmark, 1910)Körkarlen (The Phantom Carriage, dir. Victor Sjöström, Sweden, 1920)Den hemmelighetsfulle leiligheten (The Mysterious Apartment, dir. Tancred Ibsen, Norway, 1948)Det sjunde inseglet (The Seventh Seal, dir. Ingmar Bergman, Sweden, 1957)Gertrud (Gertrud, dir. Carl Th. Dreyer, Denmark, 1966)Mies vailla menneisyyttä (The Man without a Past, dir. Aki Kaurismäki, Finland, 2002)Börn náttúrunnar (Children of Nature, dir. Friðrik Þór Friðriksson, Iceland, 1991)
Festen (The Celebration, dir. Thomas Vinterberg, Denmark, 1998)Zozo (dir. Josef Fares, Sweden, 2005)Miss Julie (dir. Liv Ullmann, Norway/Sweden/Ireland, 2014)Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Intermediate Level (level 5)  Total Learning Hours: 150  Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Maria Chiara D'ArgenioTeaching structure: This course
is taught by lectures and seminars which will include regular group discussion.Assessment: one 3000 word essay (40%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (60%). Module Description:This module is based on a
substantial survey of artistic forms which epitomize the difficulties and
limits of representing the Subaltern in Latin America. The figures of the
subaltern chosen include the woman in patriarchal society, the slave in
colonial society, the dispossessed peasantry in rural areas and the worker in a
capitalist society. These are characters whose voices and stories have been (at
least) partially hidden and their narratives culturally muted, albeit
persistent. As exemplified by Sor Juana´s question in the epigraph, the
artistic contributions we will study during this course set out to explore the
tensions existing between the possibility of speaking or subsuming to ‘the art
of saying without saying’.Subaltern studies is about the
representation of the third-world subject, representation in the political
sense of ‘speaking for’ a subject and in the artistic and philosophical sense
of ‘speaking of’ a subject. By examining the subaltern, this course seeks to
address issues such as the relationship between representation and power: which
representations are able to secure cultural domination and which do not.
Following an exploration of different definitions and concepts such as
hegemony, representation, discourse, ideology, positions of power, culture,
silence and subordination, and taking into account key aesthetic proposals
developed in the Latin American context, this course will consider literary,
pictorial, cinematic and historical works which speak to experiences of
subalternity in Latin America.Students should read all the texts listed below and the supplementary readings indicated by the course tutor before the allocated class. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
30
UCL credits / 1.0 course units / 15 ECTS  Level: First Level (level 4)
 Total Learning Hours: 300
 Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2Tutor: variousModule convenors: Adolfo Sánchez Cuadrado & Marga Navarrete Teaching
structure:Assessment 2017-18:
Final Desk Exam with components of
Grammar, Composition in Spanish, Translation into Spanish and Translation into
English (50%); Oral Exam (20%);
Coursework (30%). The coursework consists of two grammar
quizzes, two oral presentations, two writing exercises in Spanish, two
translations into Spanish, and two translations into English. The breakdown
for coursework marks is 3% for each component.Assessment 2016-17: Module
Description:This is a second-year Spanish
language module consolidating your proficiency at level B2 and exploring level
C1 of the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR). In the
Grammar and Communicative Skills classes you will expand your vocabulary and learn to use
increasingly more sophisticated language in a variety of contexts and registers,
as well as idioms, expressions and colloquialisms.
Different varieties of Spanish will be explored. The Translation classes will
help you enhance your translation competences already acquired in the previous
year in order to tackle a wider variety of texts in both language directions. You
will improve your knowledge of the Hispanic culture(s) across the globe,
especially in the Additional Contents and Skills classes, which will prepare
you for the Year Abroad. To learn more about the Year Abroad, which students
spend in one out of a wide range of Spanish-speaking countries, follow this linkSet
Textbooks (compulsory)*: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150  Term/s: Term 2 Tutor: Dr
Gareth WoodTeaching structure: La
Regenta is a substantial novel, 900 pages in length in most 
editions. This module will therefore spend the first half of the term 
reading the novel in
stages and looking in detail at how the action develops. In the second 
half of
term, we will move on to discuss the novel in its social and cultural 
context,
engaging in close reading and examining the critical discourses that 
have grown
up around the novel. Background lectures will provide the necessary 
contextual
detail and seminars will allow for class discussion and the sharing of 
ideas.Assessment: One
3000-word coursework essay (40%) and a two-hour desk exam (60%).Module Description: In
this module we shall be reading and analysing the novel La Regenta
(1884-85) by Leopoldo Alas. Writing under the penname ‘Clarín’, Alas was the
most famous literary critic in Spain at the time he published La Regenta.
He had gained a reputation as a scathing cultural commentator but La Regenta
surprised many of his contemporaries for the sensitivity with which it depicted
a troubled young woman’s search for happiness and a stable identity in a
provincial Spanish city. Her name is Ana Ozores, a woman who endures a troubled
childhood as the poor relation of an aristocratic family which has fallen on
hard times. Still a young adult, she finds herself married to Don Víctor Quintanar,
an aged and impotent former judge, but increasingly torn between sexual desire
for Don Álvaro Mesía, the local lothario, and a yearning to explore her
spiritual life guided by her confessor, Fermín de Pas. It is her struggle with
the competing claims of duty, lust, and spirituality that forms the central
thread of the novel. Because
he was reading and reviewing much of the new fiction published in Spain and
abroad, Alas was well placed to respond to the latest developments in the
European novel. La Regenta can therefore be considered as a novel written
in response to the Naturalist techniques Émile Zola was pursuing at this time.
However, it is regarded today as both one of the best psychological portraits
of a female protagonist in nineteenth-century fiction and one of the most
biting social satires.Please note that this Term 2
module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination. 

Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: The
edition of La Regenta we shall be using is in two volumes: Leopoldo Alas, La Regenta, ed. by Gonzalo Sobejano, 2
vols (Madrid: Castalia, 1983 [or subsequent reprints]). It would be helpful if you could get hold of a
copy of this edition for use in class.
A detailed bibliography of secondary sources will be provided 
via moodle and in class.
    Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(SPAN2109A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The module takes place at the same time as SPAN2109.)Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Intermediate Level (level 5)  Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term/s: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Maria Chiara D'ArgenioAssessment: SPAN2109: one essay (40%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (60%). In the exam,
students must answer questions on texts not studied for the coursework essay.
SPAN2109A:1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module Description: This module will introduce you to a range of work by
a number of women writers from the Southern Cone and the Andean region. The
module will begin with a consideration of the principal issues at stake in
approaching the topic of women’s writing (e.g. can writing be gendered? Is
there such as thing as a women’s language?), in the course of which you will be
equipped with the relevant vocabulary and conceptual framework necessary for
this enterprise. During the rest of the module you will study a range of works
in different genres including novel, short story, essay and poetry. Issues to
be considered throughout the module in relation to the texts studied will
include: questions of language, style and form; thematic concerns such as
identity, family, nationhood, modernity and ‘race’; and the writers’ and works’
relationship to broader historical contexts of literary production.Preparatory reading and set texts:General background readingPlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Intermediate Level (level 5)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term/s: Term 2Tutor: Dr Claire Lindsay.Assessment: one essay (40%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (60%).Module Description: This course will introduce you to a range of work by a number of
women writers from Mexico and the Hispanic Caribbean region.
The course will begin with a consideration of the principal issues at
stake in approaching the topic of women’s writing (e.g. can writing be
gendered? Is there such as thing as a women’s language?), in the course
of which you will be equipped with the relevant vocabulary and
conceptual framework necessary for this endeavour. During the rest of
the course you will study a range of work in different genres, typically including the novel, essay and short story. Issues
to be considered throughout the course in relation to the texts studied
will include: questions of language, style and form; thematic and social concerns
such as identity, family, nationhood and ‘race’; and the writers’ and
works’ relationship to the literary canon and to broader historical
contexts of literary production.Please note that this Term 2
module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination. Preparatory reading and set texts: books you will need to buy/or have your own copy of include the following. The above are recommended editions but others may be available and acceptable - please check with the course convenor.  Background readingPlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Intermediate Level (level 5)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term/s: Term 2Tutor: Dr Deborah MartinAssessment: one essay (50%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (50%).Module Description:This module will introduce students to a broad range of periods and
styles in Latin American cinema, and to concepts in film theory. It will
explore thematic questions of nationhood, politics, gender and sexuality, as
well as questions specific to cinematic and visual representation.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: Films Initial Secondary
BibliographyPlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Intermediate Level (level 5)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Tyler Fisher Assessment: 3000 word coursework essay (40%), unseen two-hour written examination (60%). Module Description: This module introduces
students to a range of literature written by and about the Spanish Inquisition
in Spain and the Spanish colonies. The module considers ‘literature’ in the
broadest sense, in an historicist approach (ranging from the Inquisitors’
regulatory memoranda to conventional stage plays). Beginning with the founding
documents that set the Inquisition in motion, and ending with the polemical
pamphlets that argued for and against its abolition, we read these texts in
their social and historical contexts, as literature that shaped and was shaped
by the institution. While not exonerating or in any way excusing the
Inquisition’s abuses, the module challenges facile, reductive assumptions about
its nature and effects. Proceeding chronologically, we reconsider the
Inquisition as a continuously evolving socio-political phenomenon, within
which, and in spite of which, artful textual production took place across
nearly 350 years of Spanish history.The
course tutor convenes and facilitates lectures and seminars. All course
information will be made available via Moodle, as well as many of the primary
texts for lectures and seminars. You may start reading for this module before
classes begin. Key readings are marked with an asterisk in the list of texts.Preparatory
Reading and Set Texts: Helen Rawlings, The Spanish Inquisition (2006). Instrucciones, the inquisitors’ own procedural rules
and regulations. Fray
Luis de León, selected Odes. Lazarillo de Tormes, the expurgated chapters.  *Juan
Ruiz de Alarcón, Quien mal anda en mal
acaba. selected
Elogios by Sephardic Jews (1655). *Luis
Gutiérrez, Cornelia Bororquia, o La
víctima de la Inquisición, ed. Gérard Dufour.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(SPAN2400A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The module takes place at the same time as SPAN2400.)Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Intermediate Level (level 5)  Total Learning Hours: 150  Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Adrian PearceAssessment: SPAN2400: Two 2,000-word essays (each weighted at 50%).
SPAN2400A:1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module Description:This module covers the history of Latin America during three of the five
centuries that have elapsed since the Iberian conquests, a period that shaped
the region in fundamental ways and endowed it with enduring characteristics. It
thus addresses questions such as: why do Mexico or Peru have large indigenous populations
today, while Cuba or Argentina do not? Why do so many people of African descent
live in Cuba or Brazil, but so few in Guatemala or Uruguay? Or why are there
eighteen Spanish-spealing republics, but just one (vast) Portuguese-speaking
one? The course covers political, social, economic, and cultural aspects, and
devotes attention to both the Spanish and Portuguese colonies, while also
following closely the history of Spain and Portugal themselves during this
period.Early sessions discuss the Spanish conquest, for which historical debate
is almost as hard-fought as were the wars for Mexico and Peru between
conquistadors, Aztecs, and Incas; the collapse over the following century of
native populations throughout the Americas, and its lasting implications; the
so-called spiritual conquest and the distinctive religious tradition to which
it gave rise, based on the melding of traditions or religious syncretism;
gender relations and attitudes to sexuality, with a focus on women; and forced
labour systems, with emphasis on African slavery as it developed in the New
World context.After reading week, we begin with a session on the colonial economy,
based above all on silver mining at places such as Potosí in Bolivia or
Zacatecas in Mexico, and the fleets of galleons that united Iberia with the
colonies across the Atlantic. We then devote two classes to relations between
Spain and Portugal and the Americas: the first to the place of the colonies
within the Iberian global empires, and to shifting relations between colonies
and metropolises; and the second to the imperial policies and strategies
developed in Madrid and Lisbon in response. The final two sessions look at
native resistance to colonial rule during the eighteenth century, above all in
the Andes, and finally the complex processes that led to Independence after
1800.Indicative
Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Intermediate Level (level 5)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Adrian PearceAssessment: Two 2,000-word essaysModule Description:This module concerns the extraordinary history of Spain in the twentieth
century. Over the past hundred years, the country has fought a brutal civil war,
and experienced among the most stable and enduring of European dictatorships;
toyed with republicanism, before re-establishing itself as a monarchy; and undergone
a democratic transition regarded as a model around the world, to then
experience several decades of the “Spanish miracle”, of rapid economic growth
and growing soft power. Most recently, the country has seen the political and
economic model established during the transition come under strain, through
unresolved tensions over fundamental questions of governance and national
identity. All of this, while undergoing social change of unprecedented rapidity,
that has given the country much of its distinctive feel in recent times.We begin by providing the necessary context, with a session devoted to
Spain´s turbulent nineteenth century. Successive classes then look at the
period to the 1930s, marked by colonial wars in Africa and the strange dictatorship
of Miguel Primo de Rivera; the Second Republic from 1931 to 1936, as a period
of growing social and political tension and violence; and the catastrophe of
the Civil War itself, which became an archetype of the horrors of internal
strife and a mirror of broader European trends during W. H. Auden´s “low,
dishonest decade”. The final class before reading week focuses upon the
dictatorship of Francisco Franco that followed, and its political, social, and
economic consequences across several decades until Franco´s death in 1975.Later sessions begin with a discussion of Spain´s remarkable transition
to democracy in the late 1970s and early 1980s, long considered perhaps the
most successful process of its kind. We then discuss the period from the 1980s
to the 2000s, of integration with Europe, economic boom, and cultural
florescence, that seemed to crown a remarkable period of national reinvention
and success. A further class discusses the specific case of Catalonia, as a window
on to regional nationalisms in contemporary Spain and a key test for the current
democratic settlement. Finally, the last two classes look, first, at social
change in Spain since the 1970s, from the movida
madrileña to mass immigration, and secondly, at Spanish international
relations across the period since the Second World War.Indicative
Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Intermediate Level (level 5)
 Total Learning Hours: 150  Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Alexander SamsonTeaching structure: Assessment: one 3000 word essay (40%); one unseen two-hour written examination (40%); one group project (20%).Module Description:The module will trace the development of commercial theatre in early 
modern Spain from its medieval origins in church performances and Corpus
 Christi celebrations, to its heyday in the 17th century. The theatre 
was the first truly popular cultural form of the modern world and 
attracted its audiences from all levels of society. Our discussions will
 focus around a number of themes including: power, anti-theatricalism, 
representations of kingship, honour, gender and cross-dressing, race, 
the New World, sexuality, the Don Juan myth and sumptuary law.Please note that this Term 2
module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:The editions listed here are merely recommendations. 
Cátedra or Castalia editions of any of the plays are fine. Just make 
sure your edition has line numbers. There are also an enormous number of
 comedias freely available online through either the Comedia website or the Association for Hispanic Classical Theatre.  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				DUTC4001 - Dutch Language 3DUTC4201 – Making Modern Dutch LiteratureDUTC4205 - Contemporary
Culture and History of the Low CountriesDUTC4502A - Advanced
Translation (from Dutch into English)DUTC4901 - Project in Dutch  FREN4001 - Use of French FREN4002 - French Oral FREN4003 - French Essay FREN4004 - Advanced Translation FREN4005 - Translation I FREN4006 - Translation II FREN4104 - Writing the Self in Post-War France: Aspects of Life-Writing FREN4105 - Dominating Texts: Literary Power Relations in 20th Century Writing FREN4107 - Jean-Paul Sartre: Novels and Other Writings FREN4115 - Legendary Histories FREN4118 - Oriental Encounters  FREN4119 - Realism: Looking Awry in Nineteenth-Century France FREN4209 - Cultures of AIDS in France: History, Policy and Representation  FREN4212 - The Swiss New Wave FREN4214 - Reading Tintin  FREN4217 - Fiction and the Archives FREN4218 - The Front National and Far Right Politics in France FREN4219 - Discourses of Equality FREN4311 - Topics in Modern French HistoryGERM4001 - Modern German LanguageGERM4001A - Modern German Language (Term1)GERM4001B - Modern German Language (Term2)GERM4002 - Discussion and
Essay in German GERM4103 - Wolfram von Eschenbach's 'Parzival' GERM4125 - Austrian LiteratureGERM4126 - Recording Revolt: 1967 in Germany and afterGERM4127 - German Fiction and German HistoryGERM4129 - Language, Power
and Ideology GERM4131 - Modern German ArtGERM4133 - Reading Modern
Novels GERM4141 - German Literature
and Psychology GERM4144 - Black GermanyGERM4145 - SurveillanceGERM4146 - EmpathyITAL4040 - Final Year Italian LanguageITAL4102 - Nation, Culture
and SocietyITAL4127 - Identity and Performance in Renaissance Italy ITAL4909 – The Contemporary Italian NovelITAL4914 – Memory and History in Twentieth Century ItalyITAL4926 - Marriage and Divorce Italian Style (1861-1975)ITAL6001/6002/6004 - English Academic Writing and Translation Skills (for Italian Affiliates only)SCAN4001 - Advanced DanishSCAN4002 - Advanced SwedishSCAN4003 - Advanced NorwegianSCAN4006 - Advanced Project Work in Danish, Norwegian or SwedishSCAN4007 - Translation from
the Scandinavian LanguagesSCAN4201 - Dissertation in
Scandinavian StudiesSCAN4202 - Crime and Small
Communities in Nordic LiteratureSCAN4401 - Advanced Old NorseSCAN4402 - The Vikings in EuropeSCAN7006 - Nordic Landscapes in text, image and soundSCAN7203 - Extended Essay in
Scandinavian StudiesSCAN7214 - Vikings and
Valkyries in Contemporary CultureSCAN7310 - Nordic Politics
and Society, 1990s and After SCAN7405 - Viking-Age Scandinavia SCAN7540 - Nordic CinemaSPAN4001 - Spanish Language
IIISPAN4112 - Latin American Vanguard
MovementsSPAN4115 - The Literary World of J.L. BorgesSPAN4117 - The Works of Cervantes Part ISPAN4304 - Spanish Film from the 1990s: New Ways of Seeing(ii)SPAN4307 - Cultural Dilemmas IISPAN4308 - The City in Latin American CultureSPAN4400 - Topics in Spanish and latin American HistorySPAN4408 - The Battle for Memory
in the Contemporary Spanish Novel: Part I, The Transition to DemocracySPAN4411 - Childhood in Latin American CinemaSPAN4414 - The Andean World of J.M. ArguedasSPAN4415 - Reading and Writing Spanish Microfiction





 



These modules are compulsory for those on the 'with Portuguese' diets, 
and then available to single honours students (subject to availability).PORT4010 - Advanced PortuguesePORT4420 - Portugal and its Empire in the 20th Century: Trajectories and MemoriesPORT4421 - Short Fiction and the Making of Modern Brazil   These modules are not available to joint honours students. HIST6410 - History of Latin America c.1830-c.1930  Please note - this 1.0cu module is subject to availability (please be aware the History
department may not be in a position to approve/reject requests until the Friday
before the week teaching commences) and approval from the SELCS UG Tutor.  
Guidance on registering for History modules.LCUL4001 – Dissertation in Language and
CultureThe Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 1 Tutor: Professor Andrew LeakAssessment: One 3-hour desk exam (weighting 100%).Module Description: This module focuses on what is sometimes called the ‘early Sartre’: the
 period from the publication of Sartre’s first novel to the end of World
 War Two – the moment at which ‘existentialism’ took off as the dominant
 intellectual vogue of the post-war period. The module includes two 
novels, a book of short stories, a play
 and a text written to ‘explain’ existentialism to the general public. 
Students following the module will, by the end of it, be thoroughly 
conversant with one of the most significant intellectual movements of 
the twentieth century, and with its manifestations in a range of 
literary genres and forms.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
          
                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2 Tutor: To be confirmed Assessment: 1 assessed essay (50%) and a two-hour desk examination (50%) Module Description:This module will look at a key period, event or theme in modern French history (1789
onwards) and will also develop students’ understanding of historical
methodologies to an advanced level. Students will study key historical
developments of the Francophone world with a view to understanding the social,
political and cultural landscape of modern France. They will also develop tools
for historical analysis and research-based learning. By the end of the module, they will have a detailed
understanding of the principles of historical method, particularly source
interpretation and the presentation of an informed argument, and will have
developed these skills to a high standard in the assessed work. Students are
not expected to have studied history before to be eligible to take this module. More details regarding bibliography and course content will be made available during Term 1. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0
course units / 15 ECTS PG Value: 30 UCL credits / 30 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 300Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2
 
 Tutor: Linda van AbelTeaching Structure:This module is available
 to both Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten 
two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in 
which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: one
unseen three-hour written examination (40%); one oral assessment (15%); and
written coursework/problem papers (45%).PG Assessment: one
unseen three-hour written examination (50%); one oral assessment (25%); and
written coursework/problem papers (25%).Module Description:The module aims for students
to become critical intercultural users of Dutch in both spoken and written
form. Students are prepared for the complexity of communication in a fast
changing global and multicultural world. The course provides practice in
language used in work and social situations by emphasising the contextual
demands of audience, aim and genre in a wide range of communicative situations.
Work in class and homework tasks concentrate on developing awareness of
stylistics especially in relation to the contexts of situation and culture. In addition, this module
encourages students to develop their own ‘voices’ and see to what degree this
could be adopted or altered depending on the needs of the context of the
communicative task. Grammar and vocabulary work
are an integral part of all language tasks. Grammar points are discussed in
class where and when needed, but students will also be expected to self-correct
and apply their grammatical knowledge in revising their drafts.  Home work
tasks are an important part of the course, as they help to develop the
necessary skills. These tasks are also assessed in a Language PortfolioAttention is paid to
creativity, as well as to issues affecting the world of work and business.
Tasks range from writing creatively in several genres, e.g.  travel
reports/blogs/memoir and (semi)-professional (e.g. journalistic articles,
presenting coherent  and convincing oral and written arguments, writing
formal letters and e-mails, debating and so on. Students will also design,
prepare and teach a listening class to their fellow students. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:TBC Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSPG Value: 30 UCL credits / 15 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 2 
 
 Tutor: Hans DemeyerTeaching Structure:This module is available
 to both Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten 
two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in 
which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: two 3000 word essays, weighted equally.PG Assessment: two 3000 word essays, weighted equally.Module Description:This module provides students with the opportunity to study writers 
whose work has had a major impact on the modern literary canon. The module looks at the institution of Dutch literature from the 
mid-nineteenth century until today. There will be a number of case 
studies of individual authors taken from different periods and 
representing literature from the Netherlands and Flanders. Currently 
these authors are Carry van Bruggen, Hugo Claus and Cees Nooteboom.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:The Literary FieldCarry van BruggenHugo ClausPlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSPG Value: 30 UCL credits / 15 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)
Term: Term 2 Tutor:  Ulrich TiedauTeaching Structure:This module is available to both Final 
Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: the best three out of four 1500 word essays (100%)PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%)Module Description:In the period since the Second
World War there have been many changes in the societies and cultures of the Low
Countries. This module looks at four important areas of change from a
historical perspective and will deal with the history and culture of Women,
Immigrants, Space, and Memory in the Low Countries, from the 19th
century onwards. The module will look at how current concerns can be traced
back in Dutch society and provide students with a deeper knowledge of Dutch
culture and society as well as important theories related to the key topics.
This module builds on the first and second year core modules DUTC1301- Communities and
Identities in the Low Countries and DUTC2301- Investigating Cultures and offers an opportunity to
further develop cultural analysis concepts, skills and techniques while
exploring selected topics of contemporary Dutch and Belgian history and
culture.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:There is no set textbook for this module. Readings and handouts will be provided in class and on Moodle.
 However, you may find the following textbook, a standard history of the
 Low Countries, useful for background information (copies of which are 
held in the College library):Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSPG Value: 30 UCL credits / 15 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (UG)Term: Term 1 Tutor: Christine SasTeaching structure: A one-term module taught in weekly two-hour classes which consist of a translation workshop and reflection on translation. Final-year undergraduate students study alongside MA students who are following the graduate version of this course.MA students have four 
additional tutorial hours in which to extend and deepen their 
exploration of the subject.UG Assessment:  100% coursework, normally consisting of an annotated translation and an essay or commentary.PG Assessment: One 4,000-word essay (50%) and one 1,000 translation (50%). Module Description:An advanced translation module combining reflection on the translation process with regular exercises in translating from Dutch into English covering a variety of text types. Students learn to develop a translation strategy, analyse texts for translation and translated literary texts, and are encouraged to develop their own approach to translation. Time is also devoted to practical skills such as editing and proofreading, accessing a range of printed and electronic lexicographical and bibliographical resources.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Links to online resources will be provided in the Moodle site for this module.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.  The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSPG Value: 30 UCL credits / 15 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 1 
 
 Tutor: Christine SasTeaching Structure:This module is available
 to both Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten 
two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in 
which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: one 4,000 word Essay - 100%PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay - 100%Module Description:A project written in Dutch on an approved topic in an area of Dutchliterature, linguistics, modern history, society or culture. The module consists of three elements:If possible, depending on student interests, students work on shared projects. The projects cover specific aspects of the modern Low Countries. They involve collaborative research and coordination of activities as part of project management. The project report is a substantial composition in Dutch offering an in-depth exploration of a particular topic.This module offers final year or affiliate students the opportunity to study a topic in depth, that is not currently covered by other modules in the Department of Dutch.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Jann Matlock Assessment: two assessed 3,000 word essays (50% each)Module Description:  “There is
a very dangerous thing in literature,” wrote one of Balzac’s critics in 1847,
“and that is the excess of truth.” Like many critics of the mid-nineteenth
century, this one worried that novelists were unveiling things one might simply
not want to see. What he called the “incessant, merciless observation”
of the “physiological” novelists came increasingly to be labelled by other
critics as a “realist” vision that endangered literary and social values. Twentieth
century critics--among them Lukács, Auerbach, Barthes, and Jameson--have given
us retooled notions of what served, in the nineteenth century, as a label of
denigration. We take for granted today that the nineteenth century novel
tradition includes something we might call “realist” and that the visual
avant-garde of the mid-nineteenth century might best be grouped under that
label.  This
module sets out to re-examine those premises, in particular, by looking at the
material conditions for the definition of “realism” in the nineteenth century.
Through readings of contemporary press criticism of the novel and painting, we
will try to reposition the concept of realism. Through discussions of
nineteenth-century theories of vision we will elaborate a different framework
for thinking about the realist gaze. Student presentations will develop new
ways of thinking about nineteenth-century observation and the visual and
literary realms it engaged. Topics to
be considered: Realism as a critical concept; “realism” in Stendhal and
Delacroix and the tragedies of history; Balzac and vision; the social novel;
women “realists”?; the reception of Courbet and Manet; censorship and the
realist novel; naturalism, the morgue, and the ends of realism; and
photography’s real. Novels by Stendhal, Balzac, Sue, Flaubert, and Zola.
Painting, photography, 19th-century criticism, and contemporary theoretical
texts also to be considered.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Full yearConvenor: Ms Marie FournierTutor: Various Assessment: one twenty-five minute oral examination (100%). Satisfactory 
completion of the coursework is normally a prerequisite for examination 
entry. In the examination, which reflects the module content, students will be 
required to give a summary of a text in French (which they will receive a
 few days before the examination) and answer questions showing an 
analytical response to this text. They are also required to give a 
presentation on and discuss a topic of their own choice (the topic must 
not overlap with material on which students have been or will be 
examined in other parts of their module).Module Description:This final-year core module aims to encourage fluency in responsive and discursive forms.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 1 and Term 2Tutor: Professor Andy LeakAssessment: one unseen three-hour written exam (100%). Satisfactory completion of the coursework is normally a prerequisite for examination entry.Available to: Compulsory for single-subject students. This module is also available to francophone Modern Language, Modern Language Plus and ESPS students who wish to take this instead of FREN4002 - French Oral (see note for FREN4002- French Oral). The module is not available to combined-subject students.Module Description:This final-year module is compulsory for single-subject students and recommended for Erasmus students.  This module is concerned with the translation from French into English of literary texts, both in poetry and in prose. The aim is to provide students with the techniques required for this challenging form of translation and to give them the opportunity, on a weekly basis, to apply those techniques to a range of literary texts. To this end, students will make translations of prose passages and of short lyric and prose poems; they will also write extended ‘translation commentaries’ that focus on those aspects that were most problematic and/or interesting for the translator. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Thibaut RaboinAvailable to: The module is designed primarily for SELCS affiliate students but other students, including other affiliates from ART or other faculties, may be allowed on the course subject to availability of places and approval from the students' home departments. The areas covered will not overlap with those of FREN4006.Assessment: Coursework - 3 translation assignments (30%, 30%, 40%) Module Description:The module involves the translation of non-literary text from French into English. Broad areas that will be covered:- Journalistic (e.g. features, reportage (incl. headlines), faits divers, small-ads, horoscopes, sports reporting etc.)- Technical ( ‘New Scientist’ type popular science, manuals and various ‘modes d’emploi’, catalogues and specifications)- Consumer-oriented (this overlaps with all of the above: e.g. promotion masquerading as travel-writing, the performance specs of cars, electrical goods, advertisements of all kinds etc. etc.)Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Thibaut RaboinAvailable to: The module is designed primarily for SELCS affiliate students but other students, including  other affiliates from ART or other faculties, may be allowed on the module subject to availability of places and approval from the students' home departments. The areas covered will not overlap
 with those of FREN4005.Assessment: Coursework - 3 translation assignments (30%, 30%, 40%) Module Description: The module involves the translation of non-literary text from French into English. Broad areas that will be covered:- Academic Writing (articles, monographs, abstracts, ‘pitches to publishers’, research projects outlines)- Political Discourse (posters, banners, speeches etc.)- Cultural Journalism (book and film reviews etc.)Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 credits Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG) Term: Term 2 Tutor: James AgarTeaching Structure:This module is available to both
 Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (100%)PG Assessment: coursework (100 %) Module Description:This module will address a range of aesthetic, political or
theoretical issues which arise from the practice of modern ‘life-writing’.
Attention will be given to the particular socio-historical contexts of textual
production in order to ascertain what differences and similarities there might
be between the practice of ‘writing the self’ in and between the set texts. We
will also consider the implications of the practice of reading ‘life-writing’:
does this mode of writing invite and/or impose an unwritten contract on the
reader?; how might reading soi-disant ‘literary’ texts be modified by
theoretical issues/texts (and vice versa)?; what issues of authenticity,
believability and trust are aroused through reading ‘life-writing’?; can
‘life-writing’ be categorised as a specific genre?; what are the formal and
thematic differences between autobiography, memoir or diary, fiction and autofiction? We will also address
differences which might be reflected in ‘life-writing’ through, for example,
gender, sexuality and class and will discuss the relations between life, death
and art, writing and identity, memory and the conscious and unconscious self.
In addition to the set literary texts, there will be substantial reading
required of additional non-literary texts (provided on moodle). Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 credits Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (UG) Term: Term 2Tutor: Professor Mairéad HanrahanTeaching Structure:This module is available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (100%).PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%)Module Description:This module will focus in depth on the first volume of the novel which perhaps morethan any other work dominated French literature in the twentieth century, Proust’s Ala recherche du temps perdu, before studying texts by a number of other importantwriters who wrote in Proust’s wake. Domination inevitably implies a power struggle;at the heart of the questions the module will explore is the relationship betweenliterature and power. By means of close textual analysis, we shall examine how theprescribed texts all thematise domination in some form, notably with regard to socialand sexual relations. Sometimes they universalise it, suggesting that intersubjectiverelations are necessarily hierarchical; sometimes they explore the possibility ofsubverting it, beckoning towards a mode of relation that need not involve thesubmission of one element to another, positing the existence of a non-subordinatingdominance, a dominance that does not dominate. The texts also raise questions ofintertextual
 domination: what makes for a specifically literary power? is beauty a 
form of power? does a very powerful text overshadow others, or on the 
contrary call them into being in response to its appeal? Finally, the 
seminars will discuss the power relationship between reader and text: is
 a powerful text precisely one that can never be mastered? And, if 
reading is not an exercise in domination, what is it?Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 credits Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG) Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Jane GilbertTeaching Structure:This course is available to both
 Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG assessment: one 3,000-word essay (50%) and one unseen 90-minute written examination (50%).PG assessment: one 6,000-word essay (100%)Module Description:According to H. E. Bates’s famous dictum, ‘The past is
 another country – they do things differently there’. In this module, we
 shall look at how our medieval past presented its past, and 
particularly at the ways in which – like us, but differently from us – 
medieval people interwove history with legend. We shall read works in 
which the inhabitants of the past appear almost superhuman – and are 
sometimes literally inhuman – in their greatness and terror. ‘We’ the 
readers may consider ourselves heirs to this greatness, or well rid of 
this terror, or both. Moreover, all the texts that we shall study have 
been extremely significant in the construction of European identities 
both national and international. We shall investigate some of the uses 
made of these texts by medieval writers, readers and patrons, looking at
 their subversive potential as well as their propaganda value. In each 
case, legend inserts an uncanny quality into the histories that 
contemporaries construct around themselves. Robert
 de Boron’s Merlin is a short prose romance, the centre of a trilogy 
tracing the story of the Holy Grail and of Arthur’s dominion, thus 
entwining the history of Britain with the cosmic Christian story. At its
 heart is the half-demon Merlin, a figure from Celtic myth with a 
mysterious ability to shapeshift and to know all events past, present 
and future. Merlin and the Grail rapidly went on to become central yet 
troubling figures within European historiography, and retain some of 
that status even today. Although modern Europe may
 consider its birthplace to be Ancient Greece, medieval people thought 
that Europeans represented a Trojan diaspora. Every country had its own 
descent myth, inspired ultimately by Virgil’s Aeneid, and considered its
 chief city a ‘New Troy’. We shall read extracts from the mighty verse 
romance known as the Roman de Troie. The Troie presents the public and 
private upheaval of the Trojan War, including the fall of Troy and 
foundation of Western Europe on the one hand, and the many private 
tragedies on the other: Paris and Helen, Troilus and Criseyde, Achilles 
and Polyxena, and so on. A prequel to Virgil, the Troie details what for
 medieval people was the mother, pattern and explanation of all 
subsequent European and world wars. Finally, the 
verse Roman d’Alexandre follows the fortunes of the man who conquered 
the whole of the known world – including many parts known only by 
hearsay and, frankly, unlikely. In this romance Alexander also flies, 
takes a trip in a submarine, and visits ‘the marvels of the Orient’. 
Alexander was the exemplary medieval king: brave, generous and learned. 
He was an inspiration to would-be conquerors. Equally importantly, his 
biography presented medieval readers with natural and artificial 
marvels, offering them powerful experiences of exoticism and alterity 
that could not be subdued. The Alexandre presents the history of 
humanity and of the empire of the world as unChristian and alien. We 
shall read most of the Alexandre (minus the ‘Fuerre de Gadres’ episode),
 thus bringing it down to manageable length.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Further
 preparatory reading is available on request, however students’ main 
task is to familiarise themselves with the set texts.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2Tutor: To be confirmedTeaching structure: SeminarsAssessment: 1 assessed essay of 3000 words (50%) and a two-hour desk examination (50%).Module Description:This course explores the tradition of the Voyage to
the Orient (17thC-19thC). The study of cultural encounters has emerged in
recent years as a privileged field for re-thinking fundamental questions about
problems of perception, human subjectivity and identity. Starting with French
early-modern explorations of India, we will examine issues of gender, sexuality
and religious beliefs and practices intersected with perceptions of the exotic
East. We will then read extracts from Raynal’s Histoires des Deux Indes; Pierre Loti’s
account of Egypt; and Flaubert’s Voyage
en Orient, thus exploring the means and modes of European
colonisation, while testing the limits of an orientalist discourse. We will end
with a critical reading of the opening chapter of Claude Levi-Strauss’ Tristes Tropiques,
ominously entitled ‘La fin des voyages’. 
Travel writing has been a growing area in recent scholarship. This module will
also offer the opportunity to explore key notions and theories: Orientalism,
cultural relativism and cultural pluralism, historicism and post/colonialism,
while focusing on the experience of the traveller without ruling out or
oversimplifying the process of ‘knowing the other’. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Initial Secondary Bibliography:Ames, Glenn J. and Love, Ronald S., Eds., Distant Lands and Diverse Cultures: The French Experience in Asia, 1600-1700. Westport, Connecticut: Praeger, 2003.Behdad, Ali, Belated Travelers: Orientalism in the Age of Colonial Dissolution. Duke UP, 1994. Clifford, James, Writing Culture: the Poetics and Politics of Ethnography, ed. with G. Marcus. University of California Press, 1986.Elsner, Jaś, and Rubiés, Joan-Pau, Eds., Voyages and visions: towards a cultural history of travel. London: Reaktion Books, 1999.Forsdick, Charles (as much for the introduction and bibliography as anything): in New Approaches to Twentieth-Century Travel Literature in French: Genre, History, Theory. New York: Peter Lang, 2006.                                                                          Claude Lévi-Strauss, ‘La fin des voyages’, in Tristes Tropiques. Presses Pocket. (Digitised and available on Moodle via the Reading List link)Porter, Dennis, Haunted Journeys: Desire and Transgression in European Travel Writing. Princeton University Press, 1991.Said, Edward, Orientalism. Penguin Books, 1991.The Cambridge Companion to Travel Writing, eds Peter Hulme and Tim Youngs (2002; 2006) and Écrire le voyage, G. Tverdota ed. Paris: Presses de la Sorbonne nouvelle, 1994.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 credits Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG) Term: Term 1  Tutor: James AgarTeaching Structure:This module is available to both
 Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG assessment: two assessed 3000 word essays (50% each).PG assessment: two assessed 3500 and 4000 word essays.Module Description:This module will examine the development of representations and debates aroundAIDS
 in France from the early 1980s to the close of the twentieth century. 
The module will take a broadly cultural studies approach and, through 
the analysis of political and sociological texts, will examine the role 
of French medical research in the isolation and naming of the 
virus/disease and the development of French government policy toward the
 disease in terms of prevention campaigns and political rhetoric. We 
shall also study, in depth, a range of ‘literary’ and filmic texts which
 address the issue of AIDS and debates around AIDS. The module will 
address a range of themes related to these interlinking areas: 
government policy versus non-government sponsored AIDS activism in 
France; the setting up and development of self-help organisations; 
issues related to gender and (gay) sexuality; the individual and 
different notions of community; the politics of representing and 
‘reading’ AIDS. Although the focus will be on AIDS in France, comparison
 will be made with other countries and cultures in order to highlight 
some of the ideological and political inflections specific to AIDS in 
modern France.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:‘Literary’ textsFilmic texts (viewings will be arranged)History and policyPlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Roland-François LackAssessment: two assessed 3,000 word essays (50% each).Module Description: This module will provide an introduction to filmmaking in 
French-speaking Switzerland by concentrating on important works by 
Michel Soutter and Alain Tanner from the moment of the Swiss New Wave 
(1966-72), viewed in relation to later work from the ‘70s by these and 
other Swiss filmmakers (Claude Goretta, Patricia Moraz, Yves Yersin and 
Jean-Luc Godard). Alongside considerations of form, we shall focus 
on recurrent thematic preoccupations in these films, including the 
city/country opposition, the idea of Swissness and questions of gender 
representation. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: Primary films: Secondary reading and viewing matter will be recommended at a later date.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 1 Tutor: Marie FournierAssessment: one 3000-word essay (50%) and one two-hour desk examination (50%).Module Description:The module introduces students – with no necessary prior knowledge of the genre – to the study of the bande dessinée
 form, through the close study of six works in the Tintin collection of 
Belgian author Hergé (Georges Prosper Rémi). Readings of Hergé’s texts 
will be undertaken from a variety of critical perspectives: historical, 
post/colonial, narratological. Students will become familiar not only 
with the primary texts but also with relevant secondary materials 
dealing with the graphic quality of the texts and the modes of 
articulation of text and image.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Thibaut Maus de RolleyTeaching structure: SeminarsAssessment: 2 assessed essays (50% each) of 3000 words each.Module Description:We will examine in this module three famous criminal cases from the early modern period, and the series of texts that each of them generated: (i) the ‘affaire Martin Guerre’ (1560), a case of imposture and stolen identity in sixteenth-century southwestern France; (ii) the trial of Louis Gaufridy, a priest burnt at the stake in 1611 for having allegedly caused the demonic possession of two young nuns in Aix-en-Provence; (iii) the brutal assassination of a young and rich aristocrat, the Marquise de Ganges, by her two brothers-in-law (1667). We will read and discuss a wide range of (short) accounts of these three faits divers: manuscript court records, popular pamphlets, collections of histoires tragiques and causes célèbres, and a short novel (by the Marquis de Sade). But we will also look, beyond the early modern period, at 
modern reconstructions of these stories offered by historians and 
filmmakers – eg. the 1982 film Le Retour de Martin Guerre, and Natalie 
Zemon Davis’s historical study of the case (1983).The study of these stories of imposture, witchcraft, and murder in cold blood, will allow us to approach essential aspects of early modern social and legal history, and to explore the many forms taken in the early modern period by a thriving littérature du crime, at the intersection of law and literature. It will also be an opportunity to analyse in depth the processes of 'rewriting' that turn the archival account of a legal case into a well-crafted story, and a historical document into 'literature.'Set Primary Material:I. L'affaire Martin Guerre (Weeks 1-4)II. L'affaire Gaufridy (Weeks 5-7)III. La Marquise de Ganges (Weeks 8-10)A bibliography of secondary literature will be provided at the beginning of the course.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2Tutor: Professor Philippe MarlièreAssessment: 2 assessed essays (50% each) of 3000 words eachModule Description:This final year module offers an in-depth study of the Front National and far right politics in contemporary France. It starts by mapping out the origins and different strands of thought within the French far right from the late 19th century onwards. It aims to identify the core values and ideas of the far right, as well as the extent to which it forms a consistent political ideology. Then, the course concentrates on the Front National (FN), the most successful far right party in contemporary France. It pays attention to the FN’s most underlying political features; its sociological transformation over time, notably from the mid-1980s up to now. Other aspects of the study include: sociology of party membership and electorate, and main policies and ideas. The module eventually addresses more topical issues such as: is the FN still a “far right” party or has it morphed into a more mainstream party of the “national right”, as Marine Le Pen insists on? Are FN policies compatible with the French constitution and republican polity? Is it pertinent to label the FN a “populist” or “national populist” party?This is an option which is suited to students who wish to deepen their knowledge of French politics and engage with French political science literature.Preparatory Reading:Cécile Alduy,
Stéphane Wahnich, Marine Le Pen prise aux mots, Paris, Seuil, 2015.Ariane Chebel
d’Appollonia, Les Frontières du racisme. Identités, ethnicité, citoyenneté,
Paris, Presses de Sciences Po, 2011.Sylvain Crépon,
Enquête au cœur du nouveau Front National, Paris, Nouveau Monde, 2012.Alexandre Dézé,
Le Front national: à la conquête du pouvoir?, Paris, Armand Colin,‎ 2012.Valérie Igounet,
Le Front national de 1972 à nos jours. Le parti, les hommes, les idées, Paris,
Éditions du Seuil, 2014.Nonna Mayer, Ces
Français qui votent Le Pen, Paris, Flammarion, 2002.James Shield, The Extreme Right in France: From Pétain to Le
Pen, London, Routledge, 2007.Zeev Sternell, La
Droite révolutionnaire: les origines françaises du fascisme, Paris, Seuil,
1978.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 credits Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG) Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Kevin InstonTeaching Structure:This module is available to both Final 
Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: 2 assessed essays (50% each) of 3000 words eachPG Assessment: 1 assessed essays of 6000 words Module Description:The question of how we define equality, who counts as equal or whether a society can be completely egalitarian in its organisation preoccupies democratic politics and political theory. Does equality imply totally identical levels of material wealth and chances? Or does it entail the equal right to cultural or social differences? Are freedom and equality compatible? How do individuals considered unequal demand equality without simply inverting hierarchical relations or replicating them by granting others the authority to decide if they count as equal or not? This module will explore these questions through a range of philosophical, anthropological and political writings. We begin with Rousseau’s Discours de l’inégalité which refutes any natural or divine foundation for social inequalities and affirms universal freedom and equality as the most legitimate basis for social organisation. That refutation underlies Abbé Sieyès’s influential revolutionary pamphlet that calls for equal political representation in government for all orders in French society. We shall then explore the anti-colonial writings of the anthropologist Michel Leiris and Simone de Beauvoir’s foundational feminist essay Le Deuxième Sexe. The module closes by looking at Jacques Rancière’s recent and original theory of active equality: equality is not something that is distributed or ensured by social institutions but is always declared and demonstrated by those who are not counted as equal by their communities.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:*Photocopies to be provided by tutor. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 1 and Term 2
Tutor: VariousTeaching Structure:This module is available to both Final 
Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (100%)PG assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (100%)Module Description:This is an enhanced final year / MA language module in
translation from and into German. It enhances understanding of idiom,
style and register, and develops advanced language mediation skills. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1Tutor: Dr Barbara LesterTeaching structure: The module entails translation from and into English,
covering 2 hours per week. 
Assessment: Continuous coursework assessment throughout the term.Available to: Affiliate students.Module Description:This is an enhanced final year module in translation from and into German. The material used  is taken from literary works and
journalistic texts, reflecting different styles of writing, old and modern, and
varying linguistic registers. All material can be accessed via Moodle.Depending on context, background information will be given,
of a political, historical or cultural nature, as deemed necessary and
appropriate. Brief discussion of topics encouraged if wanted by students. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Barbara LesterTeaching structure: the module covers 2 hours per week.
Assessment: Continuous coursework assessment throughout the term.Available to: affiliate students.Module Description:This is an enhanced final year module in translation from and into German. The material used  is taken from literary works and
journalistic texts, reflecting different styles of writing, old and modern, and
varying linguistic registers. All material can be accessed via Moodle.Depending on context, background information will be given,
of a political, historical or cultural nature, as deemed necessary and
appropriate. Brief discussion of topics encouraged if wanted by students.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 1
Tutor: Dr Sebastian CoxonTeaching Structure:This module is available to both Final 
Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay (50%); and one unseen
two-hour examination (50%)PG Assessment: one assessed 6,000 word essay (100%)Available to: Final Year students and MA studentsModule Description: Wolfram von Eschenbach is
acknowledged to be one of the greatest poets of the German Middle Ages, perhaps
the greatest, and as a narrative writer he can stand comparison with Chrétien
de Troyes, Dante and Chaucer. Parzival, an adaptation of Chrétien’s
Arthurian and Grail romance Le Conte du Graal, is a work of astonishing
depth and complexity which is further distinguished by a forceful and
interventionist narrator-figure who engages in lively debate with his subject
matter and above all with his readers (or listeners). The module will focus on the
medieval German text of Parzival in its entirety. We will refer to
Wolfram’s treatment of his French source (of which passages may be read in
English translation) and will set him in his historical context - literary,
political, social and religious. Topics to be covered will include narrative
strategies, codes and techniques; history and fictionality; ideologies of
chivalry and nobility; gender; courtly culture; religious belief. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 1
Tutor: Dr Judith BenistonTeaching structure: This course is available
 to both Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten 
two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in 
which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG assessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay (50%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (50%). PG assessment: one assessed 6 000 word essay (100%) Module Description:In Austria the period
between approximately 1890 and 1938 was not only one of enormous political
upheavals (the collapse of the Habsburg Empire, the founding of the First
Austrian Republic, and its subsequent annexation to Nazi Germany), it was also
a time of intense cultural and intellectual ferment. Focusing on key works of
the Fin de siècle and of the interwar period, this course will explore
some of the distinctive preoccupations of Viennese modernism — sexuality and
the gendered self, aestheticism, and Sprachkrise — as well as examining literary
responses to questions of national identity and cultural tradition. Preparatory reading and
set texts:  Electronic versions of these texts are available. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Code: GERM4126Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
Level: Advanced Level (Level 6)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: term 2
Tutor: Dr Mererid DaviesAssessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay (50%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (50%)Module Description:The
1960s protest movements marked an astonishing moment for West Germany. They
developed a political critique, but above all they are distinctive for their
overwhelming emphasis on culture and the symbolic. In particular, reading and
writing had unique prestige for protesters, who produced an extraordinary writing
culture which was by turns polemical, witty, provocative, reflective and
offensive. This module explores some key literary and filmic works of the
period, in order to offer a detailed account of this culture of revolt and its
aftermath.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Film viewings will be arranged in the
department for the films to be studied. In most cases they are also available
for you to borrow via UCL Main Library if you’d like to view them
independently. Where it is noted that copies or extracts from texts will be
provided, these will be made available via Moodle.  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 2
Tutor: Dr Sebastian CoxonTeaching structure: One two-hour
seminar per week in Term II. 
Assessment: 1 assessed essay (50%); 1
two-hour exam (50%) Available to: Final Year students Module Description:
Grimmelshausen effectively launched the picaresque novel
as a literary form in Germany in the seventeenth century. His main works, which
were written as a cycle (the so-called ‘Simplicianische Schriften’), are
masterpieces of satire and gross comedy. Simplicissimus
(1668-1669) and Courasche (1670) are
fictional autobiographies chiefly set in the Germany of the Thirty Years War.
In telling their often bawdy and obscene stories the first-person narrators of
these works explore the impact of war and social conditioning on their lives
and the lives of their contemporaries. Springinsfeld
(1670) tells the story of a character who features both in Simplicissimus and in Courasche,
and Simplicissimus and Courasche feature in turn as characters in
Springinsfeld’s narrative, so that the two later novels expand and comment on Simplicissimus to produce one of the
most fascinating and dynamic fictional worlds that German literature has to
offer. The Simplician cycle is concluded with two further novels, Parts I and
II of Das wunderbarliche Vogelnest
(1672; 1675), which constitute further experiments in narrative voice and
literary comedy.In addition to examining the problem of the relationship
between fiction and history, the module will aim to introduce students to a
variety of approaches towards the analysis of pre-modern narrative. The
emphasis throughout will be on close reading of the text(s) and students will
be expected to develop a good knowledge of the Simplician cycle as a whole.Preparatory Reading
and Set Texts:· Grimmelshausen:
Der abenteuerliche Simplicissimus, ed. by Volker Meid, Stuttgart 1996etc
(Reclam 761)· Grimmelshausen:
Courasche, ed. by Klaus Haberkamm and Günther Weydt, Stuttgart 2001etc
(Stuttgart: Reclam 7998)· Grimmelshausen:
Springinsfeld, ed. by Klaus Haberkamm and Günther Weydt, Stuttgart 1976 etc
(Reclam 9814)· Hans Jacob
Christoffel von Grimmelshausen: Simplicissimus Teutsch, ed. by
Dieter Breuer, Frankfurt 2005 (Grimmelshausen Werke I:1)· Hans Jacob
Christoffel von Grimmelshausen: Courasche; Springinsfeld; Wunderbarliches
Vogelnest I und II; Rathstübel Plutonis, ed. by Dieter Breuer, Frankfurt 2007
(Grimmelshausen Werke I:2) Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of 
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the 
academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				PG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS UG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 1
Tutor: Dr Geraldine HoranTeaching Structure:This course is available
 to both Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten 
two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in 
which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG assessment: one assessed 2,500 
word essay (50%) and one take-home paper (50%). In addition to this, 
students will be required to give a short presentation on one aspect of 
the module topics. PG assessment: one assessed 3 000 word essay (50%) and one take-home paper (50%). In 
addition to this, students will be required to give a short presentation
 on one aspect of the module topics. Module Description:The module will examine the complex relationship 
between language, power, and ideology in Germany society, and will trace
 how language has been employed in the twentieth and twenty-first 
centuries by individuals, groups, organisations, and institutions to 
exercise power and to communicate a particular ideology or world-view. 
During this module, we will address a variety of linguistic topics and 
issues, including political discourse, defining 'propaganda' or 
'ideological language'; the misuse and abuse of language; the nature of 
linguistic groups; language planning. The analysis of primary texts will
 draw upon aspects of linguistic theory, including sociolinguistics, 
pragmatics, discourse analysis, and semantics.The module will focus in particular on the following topics:Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:General introductionLanguage and fascismLanguage and communismGroup discourses, identity and powerLanguage of media/advertisingPlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) / 300 (PG)Term: term 2
Tutor: Professor Mark HewitsonTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. UG Assessment: two 2,500 word essays (50% each)PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%)  Module Description:This module investigates painters' reactions to 
modernity during the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. 
Through the study of some of the most remarkable works of the modern 
avant-garde, and critical reviews of such works, students are encouraged
 to re-evaluate how the Academy, Symbolists, Expressionists and the 
artists of the Neue Sachlichkeit movement defined and reacted to the 
characteristics of the modern age. The module aims to introduce students
 to the history of art and ideas, and to complement modules in modern 
history, film and literature.Module outline1. Introduction: History of Art and Cultural History.2. Academy, Symbolism, and Secession: History, Myth, and Nation.3. Expressionism (i): Die Brücke.4. Expressionism (ii): Der Blaue Reiter.5. Dada and Neue Sachlichkeit: The Insanity of Reality.[READING WEEK]6. Bauhaus and Abstract Art: Form, Function, and Spirituality.7. The Self: Psychology and Art.8. War and the Art of Violence.9. Women and Men: Constructions of Gender.10. Metropolis: City, Nature, and Society.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Methodology and Theories of Art HistorySurveys of Art and Culture in Germany Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 2
Tutor: Reinier van StratenTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG assessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay (50%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (50%). **PG assessment: one assessed 6,000 word essay (100%).Module Description:This module looks at three major twentieth-century novels in detail. All
 three books explore the problem of interpretation and raise questions 
about how reality can be understood and represented. In each novel the 
narrative technique is a crucial tool for undermining the reader’s 
expectations, both in relation to specific historical events and in 
relation to the process of textual interpretation itself. The books 
challenge our desire for clarity and explanation in an era when the 
category of truth has been profoundly relativized.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please buy and read the following three set texts
before the autumn term begins:  ** Please note that this module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits /0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 2
Tutor: Dr Martin LiebscherTeaching Structure:This module is available
 to both Final Year students and MA students.  All students attend ten 
two-hour seminars. MA students have four additional tutorial hours in 
which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: two assessed 2500 word essays (50% each)PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%)Module Description:This module examines the interaction between
psychology and German literature in the late nineteenth and early twentieth
centuries. We will analyse a selection of literary texts that have either been
inspired by psychological findings or have been the subject of psychological
interpretations. This will not only give an insight in the psychological
theories of literature, but also help to understand the formation of psychology
as a science in the second half of the nineteenth century and the crucial role
literature played for the development of psychoanalysis around 1900. At the
same time, the module will investigate some of the ways in which psychoanalytic
and psychotherapeutic theories influenced the work of major writers such as
Arthur Schnitzler, Stefan Zweig and Hermann Hesse.Preparatory texts: Set texts :MA module in addition:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 postgraduate creditsLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) /300 (PG)Term: Term 2
Tutor: Dr Jeff BowersoxTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars taught in English consisting of lectures,
class discussions, and student presentations. MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. Moodle to be used as a repository
for reading materials as well as for preparatory assignments, and MyPortfolio
to be used as a platform for building a website. Students will also engage in
three webchats with students at the Universities of Michigan and Missouri to
discuss course material and themes.  UG Assessment: One web research project, 5,000 words (100%)PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%)Note: Students taking this module cannot take ELCS4030Module description:This module examines
the development of an African diaspora in Germany from the Renaissance to the
present-day, with emphasis on the dramatic shifts in regimes of the past 200
years. Along with surveying contexts in which Africans and their descendants
came to German-speaking lands, we will consider the diverse ways in which they
have shaped and been shaped by a society that variously tolerated, rejected, or
accepted them on specific terms. By paying due attention to transnational
contexts, the module will complicate ideas of a single black experience as well
as a monolithic and consistent idea of “Germanness.”  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 postgraduate creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 1Tutor: Dr Annie RingTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. Moodle to be used as a repository for reading and viewing materials.Formative assessment: formatively-assessed presentations followed by attendance at at least
one office hour in the term, at which students will receive feedback on their
presentation and on a bullet point essay plan.UG Assessment: One 5,000-word essay (100%)PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%)Module Description:In this module we will explore the problem and the promise of surveillance in German-language culture in the twentieth and twenty-first centuries.* Students will encounter crucial and often opposing theories of the forms surveillance can take, and test the applicability of those theories to the changing representations of surveillance in primary works in German. The theoretical approaches and primary works handled in the module will give a grounding in the contributions that German-language culture has made to discussions of how surveillance forms behaviour, as we consider the narratives and images that have emerged in the light of–and as responses to–surveillance.*MA candidates are welcome to draw on German-language works
published before 1900 in their research essays, subject to tutor’s advice. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 2 
Tutor: Dr Annie RingTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. Moodle to be used as a repository for
reading and viewing materials Formative assessment: formatively-assessed
presentations followed by attendance at at least one office hour in the term,
at which students will receive feedback on their presentation and on a bullet
point essay plan.UG Assessment: One 5,000-word essay (100%).PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%)   Module Description:   In this module we will
critically explore the notion of empathy in works of modern German-language
culture and thought. For Hannah Arendt, isolation is a condition in which
totalitarianism can easily take hold. An emotion that can reduce isolation is
empathy. Yet despite its potential for connection and understanding, empathy is
much harder to inspire than hatred toward the other, as certain key events in
modern German history suggest. Can cultural texts incite empathy, and is it
desirable for them to do so? What are the risks attendant on the empathic draw
of texts and philosophies? Students taking the module will develop the skills
to analyse and evaluate a range of texts, including films, which seek to incite
empathy or a critique of empathy in their audiences.   Preparatory reading and set texts: Arendt, Hannah, ‘Ideology and
Terror: A Novel Form of Government’, in The Origins of Totalitarianism (1951),
multiple editions. Breithaupt, Fritz, Die dunklen
Seiten der Empathie (Frankfurt a.M.: Suhrkamp, 2017) Farocki, Harun, dir., NICHT
löschbares Feuer (FRG, 1969) Feldmann,
Maximilian and Luise Schröder (dir.), Valentina (Germany and Macedonia, 2016) Heidegger, Martin, ‘Das
In-der-Welt-sein als Mit- und Selbstsein. Das »Man«’ in Sein und Zeit (1927),
multiple editions. Von Trotta, Margarethe (dir.) Die bleierne Zeit (FRG, 1981) Set texts for weekly seminars – see Module page on UCL MoodlePlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course units / 15 ECTS Level: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 300Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2 Tutors: variousTeaching structure: Students will attend a total of 3 hours per week.Module Description:This is a mandatory module for all students who are studying Italian in any Modern Languages and Modern Languages Plus combination, as well as for Italian BA students. The module presupposes successful completion of ITAL2020 Second Year Italian Language and of the Year Abroad Programme.  The aims of the module are: to develop a high level of knowledge of Italian as a medium of understanding, communication and expression; to develop the understanding of the structure of Italian and of the historical and sociocultural contexts in which it has developed and it is used; and to study Italian as a gateway to other areas and subjects (literature, history, philosophy etc) and possibly further study at postgraduate level. Please note that a thorough knowledge of basic Italian grammar is a prerequisite for this course.Assessment: 1. One unseen 3-hour written examination (75%). The three questions of the written paper are:2. One oral examination (25%). ESPS students who are registered for ITAL4002 Final Year Italian Language for ESPS students (0.5cu) will do a one-hour written exam consisting of an essay (50%) and an oral exam (50%).Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Essay/Oral/GrammarPlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 2
 
 Tutor: Professor John 
DickieTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. UG Assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (100%).PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%)Module Description:The module’s central themes are national identity and
nation-building in Italy
between Unification and the First World War. The first seminars are taken up by
a theoretical and historical discussion of nations and nationalism, and by
preparatory study of the state of Italian society in 1860. The main body of the module comprises topics that may include the following: education and children’s
literature; crime and criminal anthropology; political culture; feminism;
opera; patriotic monuments; Italian cuisine; Futurism; the South; the
Giolittian state. A representative work is studied for each topic, along with a
wide range of historical and theoretical material. Students are therefore
expected to know the set works in detail, to engage with new theoretical
concepts, and to develop a good understanding of the central questions related
to the issue of national identity in Liberal Italy.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Lisa Sampson Teaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. UG Assessment: one written commentary of
2000 words (40%), and an assessed essay of 3000 words (60%) PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%) Module Description:This
module explores perceptions of identity in Renaissance Italy, bringing recent
perspectives to the compelling thesis of Renaissance man’s individuality in
Burkhardt’s foundational The Civilization
of the Renaissance in Italy (1860). The focus is especially on how identity
could be construed, or socially, politically, and culturally constructed, by
individuals or groups, through theatre and the rich culture of the princely
courts. We will examine Castiglione’s Il
cortegiano (1528), which provides a subtle portrait of the court of Urbino
and of the multifarious roles played by the ideal courtier. Theatrical works by
Bibbiena, Ariosto and comici dell’arte will provide a further basis
for exploring the complex dynamics involved in ‘self-fashioning’, from dress
and leisure pursuits to more challenging issues of imitation and dissimulation.
Students will explore the aesthetics and ethics of performance, debates on
nobility, linguistic issues, class and political identity, gender play, and
also attitudes to sociability and humour. 
The study of theatrical texts will allow students opportunities to
engage practically in class with issues of performance.  A theatre visit will be programmed depending
on availability.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Enrico 
PalandriTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. UG Assessment: One 5,000-word essay (100%)PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%)Module Description: Since the middle of 
the twentieth century the Italian novel has undergone profound transformations. 
Each generation of writers tends to take certain themes as its own and to 
establish stylistic trends: neorealism, experimentalism, new narrativity, ‘I 
cannibali’. Within each generation important alliances are formed with 
publishing houses and newspapers, new literary magazines are founded, the map of 
Italian society is redrawn. These groupings tend to be abandoned once individual 
careers have been established. Each new generation of writers unfailingly 
accused the older one of provincialism, of being too tied to the national 
tradition. Occasionally, however, unexpected alliances appeared between young 
writers and others fifty years older ‘I nuovi narratori’ and Morante, Moravia, 
Bilenchi; ‘I cannibali’ and ‘Gruppo 63’. The module will examine these changes 
in relation both to generational differences and to the individual careers of 
the authors themselves.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Novels from the bulk of the bibliography. However, some texts are 
offered as historical and theoretical support. The following is a small 
selection of the novels referred to in the lectures. Students are welcome to 
propose other texts by the same authors. A longer list of novels and other works 
will be supplied to students taking the module. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1  Tutor: Dr Eleanor ChiariAssessment: two 
assessed 3000 word essays (50% each), one in-class presentation.Module Description:This module aims to 
provide an extensive introduction to themes related to the study of memory, 
memories and history with reference to twentieth-century Italy. Drawing on 
recent discussion in history and anthropology, the module begins with a study of 
methodology before moving on to more specific case studies in various periods of 
Italian history.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Carlotta Ferrara degli UbertiTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. UG Assessment: One 3000 word essay (50%) and one desk examination (50%)PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%) Module Description:The concept, size and functions of the European family have changed
during the XIX and XX century, in relation to the rapid mutations in political,
social and economic structures. But they have also been influenced by the
process of secularization, the evolution of medical science, then the
dissemination of valid methods of contraception. The module will focus on the evolution
of conceptions, representations and practices of marriage in Italy from a
legal, political and cultural perspective. The debate on the possibility of
introducing divorce in the Italian legal system will be followed from the
Unification until the referendum of 1974. Topics will include: representations
of the family, evolution of gender roles, representations of women, feminism,
the influence of Catholicism and Catholic parties, propaganda, the changing
attitude toward sexuality. Primary sources such as legal documents, literary
materials, films, documentaries, illustrations will be properly contextualized
and analyzed.  Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS (ITAL6001 or ITAL6004) 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTS  (ITAL6002)Level: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150 (ITAL6001 or ITAL6004) / 300 (ITAL6002)Tutor: Andrew Campbell (essay writing) and others (translation)Available to: Affiliate students who are native speakers of Italian.Teaching structure: Whole Year (ITAL6002) / Term 1 only (ITAL6004) / Term 2 only (ITAL6001).•  Time: Thursday 15.00-16.00 or 16.00-17.00 (essay writing) and Wednesday 13.00 - 14.00
 or Thursday 13.00 - 14.00 (translation from Italian into English
and vice versa).•  Student contact
hours: 20 one-hour classes (10 translation, 10 essay-writing) in each term. Assessment: No
dictionaries or any reference material are allowed in examinations.•  ITAL6001/6004: one two-hour written paper consisting of the following two
questions: Translation into English and Essay
in English•  ITAL6002: one three-hour written paperStudent workload: Regular
written assignments will be set by the module tutors, to be handed in by the
deadlines specified. Work handed in after the deadlines will not normally be
marked. Submission of at least 70% of this coursework is required for admission
to the examination.Module Description:This module gives
students practice of translation from Italian into English and vice versa, and
of essay writing in English.For the translation
classes, Affiliate students are allocated to the Final Year language groups (ITAL4040) to
work on a range of texts. One half of each term is spent working on translation
from English into Italian, the other half on translation from Italian into
English, with different tutors. Students are encouraged to reflect on and
discuss problems inherent in the practice of translation.The
essay-writing classes focus
on the discussion of topics on which the students will write essays. There will
also be scope for discussion of issues generated by the translation classes. Students
will engage with different registers and styles of English texts (such as
journalistic, formal, popular song, academic and poetry) and different varieties
of English (such as regional dialects, slang, and idiomatic phrases). The
module also includes a small component of revision of English grammar, and an
analysis of the skills required to write a short essay in English, such as how
to marshal and present arguments.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0
course units / 15 ECTS Level: Advanced Level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 300Tutor:  Dr Eleanor ChiariTeaching structure:  The dissertation takes the shape of independent
research under the guidance of a supervisor. It is expected that the student
and supervisor will meet 4 times over the course of the project to discuss its
progress.Assessment: One 10,000 words dissertation (100%).Module Description:The purpose of the dissertation is to provide
students with the opportunity to pursue independent and in-depth research on a
subject of choice. It allows students to specialize in an area according to
individual prospective career paths or intellectual interests. The dissertation
demonstrates a student’s ability to produce a substantial piece of written
work, and enhances the skills required to do this: analysis and synthesis,
clarity of thought, conciseness, organization and time management. The topic of
the dissertation must fall within the discipline range of the BA Language and
Culture. It may relate in general terms to the subject area of a module in the
degree but it must not replicate work already done on a particular
module(including Year-Abroad projects). The topic may be cross-disciplinary
and/or multi-lingual in nature, or link two areas for comparison. The topic is
subject to the approval of the Programme Convener who will also assist the student
in finding an appropriate supervisor in one of the departments linked to the
Programme. A dedicated Moodle site will be available for consultation,
containing guidance and relevant general materials.  The module aims: Intended learning
outcomes:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
30
UCL credits / 1.0 course units / 15 ECTS  Level: Advanced level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 300
 Term/s: Full YearTutor: Dr Joana Rita RamalhoTeaching structure: The class meets 4
hours per week in two 2-hour classes. The teaching is divided into four main
components: Oral, Grammar, Translation into Portuguese and
Translation into English. Other skills, such as listening and
reading comprehension and writing skills, are included in each of the four
components.Assessment: Final Desk Exam with components of Grammar, Translation into
Portuguese and Translation into English (50%); Oral Exam (20%); Coursework (30%). The
coursework consists of two grammar quizzes, two oral presentations,
two writing exercises, two translations into Portuguese and two translations
into English. The breakdown for coursework marks is 3% for each
component.Module Description:This module is designed
for students who have had exposure to Intermediate Portuguese (PORT2010) and,
typically, spent several months in Brazil, Portugal or another Lusophone
country on their Year Abroad. Native speakers of Portuguese may be present in the classroom.
The module is aimed at developing speaking, reading, writing and translating
skills in Portuguese to an advanced level of ability and help students gain
further insight into aspects of the culture of Portuguese-speaking
countries. Proficiency in Portuguese is consolidated at Level B2 of the
Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR), with some aspects
of Level C1 also explored. You will expand your vocabulary and learn to use increasingly
complex sentences and structures, as well as idioms, expressions and colloquialisms. Both the Brazilian and European
Portuguese varieties are covered, and aspects of Luso-African and Luso-Asian
culture will be explored. Students are encouraged to establish connections with
the materials studied on final-year PORT content modules. By the end of the module, we expect students
to be fluent in one of the world’s most widely spoken languages, and highly
skilled in translating literary and non-fiction texts in a variety of
registers. Course materials:Your tutor will make use of a combination of online
resources, grammars, textbooks and other materials. The following are the most
important books used on the course: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.  The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 credits Level: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) / 300 (PG)Term/s: Term 2 Tutor: Zoltan BiedermannTeaching structure: lectures including screenings, discussions and
possibly student presentations (3hrs per session)UG assessment: one 2,500 word essay (40%); and one 3,000 word essay (60%)PG assessment: one 6,000 word essay (100%)Module Description:This module explores the colonial and post-colonial cultural
production of the Lusophone world in the 20th and 21st
centuries. The first third of the course engages with Portugal, its empire
under the Salazar regime, and how it appropriated the Luso-tropicalist theories
of the Brazilian sociologist and historian Gilberto Freyre. We will learn about
the regime’s scramble for Africa, its management of internal dissent and
migration, its position with regard to World War II, and its adoption of
Lusotropicalism as a state ideology for the shaping of a Lusophone Atlantic
world. We then move to the different ways in which African intellectuals
responded through adoption, adaptation or outward rejection, leading up to the
idea of an armed struggle for independence. The final third of the course
explores the memory of Empire in post-1974 Portugal and its former colonies. We
will discuss the problem of those who returned from Africa and those who
stayed, the ways in which the memory of the colonial wars made its way (or not)
into Lusophone literary and film cultures, and the recent development of
South-South connections that bypass Portugal and (re)connect Africa directly
with Brazil. Along the way, we will watch and discuss a number of films, read
some wonderful books, and – time permitting – explore the current boom of
post-colonial artwork dealing with the trauma of colonial war.This module is taught in English, but a good level of Portuguese is
key for an understanding of many of the materials.  Preparatory viewings: (if you wish to start thinking about the topic):Preparatory Reading and Primary Texts: The full syllabus, including references and links to many more texts
and visual materials, will be available on Moodle. Students are encouraged to
watch the online materials and, once they have an idea of where their interests
are, purchase some of the primary literature. The most relevant secondary
materials will be made available online and in the library. Please contact the
tutor with any questions before you purchase materials.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 credits Level: Advanced Level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG) Term/s: Term 2Tutor: Ana Cláudia Suriani da SilvaUG Assessment: one 2500 word essay (50%); and one 3500 word
portfolio (50%) consisting of a long translation and commentary of a short
story, and a commentary of a group of crônicas.PG Assessment: 1x 6000 word essay (100%).Module
Description:This module provides an opportunity to
develop knowledge of the Brazilian crônica and short story as short
narrative genres, based on certain principals of composition and historical
reception. It will explore key concepts of narrative theory and the
relationship between literature and journalism. A chronological overview of the
short story and crônica will be provided with a focus on the most
prominent Brazilian cronistas and short story writers from the 1870’s to
the present. The module will offer a historical and literary framework for the
critical exploration of the set texts, as it aims to trace the development of
short fiction considering its relationship to major themes, events in
post-colonial Brazilian history.This module emphasises a research-based
approach to teaching and learning, by requiring students to consult and
critically engage with a diverse range of primary sources (newspapers,
magazines, first editions, anthologies, online editions), and by developing
translation skills of specific texts, as part of their
assessment. Students will be encouraged to find their own primary materials of
choice to write their essays. It will be taught in weekly sessions, which will combine a one-hour
lecture in Portuguese and a one-hour seminar in English or Portuguese. Lectures
will engage with a particular author, topic, theoretical issue or historical
moment and introduce the framework for the seminar discussion. Seminars will
consist of close reading of set texts, small group activities, and
workshops. Aims of the module:You may start reading
the primary texts for this course before classes begin. Preparatory
Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.  The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Full YearTutor: Dr Anne Grydehøj Teaching structure: One weekly 2-hour
seminar consisting of discussion and student presentations. Moodle to be used as a repository for
reading materials as well as for preparatory assignments and forum discussions. Assessment: one unseen
three-hour written examination (50%); one oral examination (30%); and
coursework (20%).Module Description:The module aims to: build on
and improve students’ existing language skills, taking students up to a level
of near-native proficiency in all four language skills: speaking, understanding,
writing and reading; enable the students to express themselves in clear,
concise, coherent, fluent, and linguistically and grammatically correct Danish.A high level of student
autonomy will be expected, and the module will to a large extent consist of
students’ own work. Weekly assignments to be completed at home will be given
and the feedback to these will constitute an essential part of the work of perfecting
students’ language competence.Preparatory Reading and Set
Texts:Texts: No textbook is required
for the module; instead, a variety of authentic materials will be used. Grammar: It is recommended
that students own a copy of R Allan, P Holmes & T Lundskær-Nielsen, Danish.
An Essential grammar (Routledge 2000). Dictionaries: It is recommended that students own a Danish dictionary
such as Politiken's Nudansk Ordbog. Students will occasionally need to
consult H Vinterberg & C A Bodelsen, Dansk-engelsk ordbog
(Gyldendal) and B Kjærulf Nielsen, Engelsk-dansk ordbog (Gyldendal),
which can be found in the library.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Full YearTutor: Ms Annika LindskogAssessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (50%); one oral examination (30%); and coursework (20%). Module Description: Aim: To perfect language skills in
spoken and written Swedish, building on previous experience.  Method: A lively approach to the language
using all available methods and developing a range of skills: speaking, reading, comprehension,
translation, essay writing, etc.  Classwork: discussion and talks by students on topics of
current or perennial interest, translation with emphasis on register,
grammatical analysis and advanced vocabulary work.  Private
study: Apart from
essays, translations and other preparations for class, the students are
encouraged to take their own initiative in reading Swedish newspapers,
magazines, listening to the Swedish radio and watching Swedish TV, visiting the
Swedish Church, attending films and other
cultural events. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Full YearTutor: Dr Elettra CarboneAssessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (50%); one oral examination (30%); and coursework (20%).Module Description:The aim of this module is to develop skills in the reading and comprehension of mainly bokmål to near native proficiency. During the module the students will be exposed to different types of original fictional and non-fictional texts and materials, including articles, literary texts, TV debates, films, and speeches. Students will reflect on the differences and similarities between different genres and will gradually be able to imitate different styles and registers.  Oral proficiency will be developed via individual
presentations and class discussions of topics dealing with
contemporary Norwegian issues and other issues of interest to members
of the group.  Student participation is essential.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Textbook There will be no textbook. Instead, there will be a variety of material used, including newspaper and
magazine articles, passages from novels and short stories, previous
exam papers and Norwegian films. Dictionaries All students must own a good
Norwegian-English and English-Norwegian dictionary. One of the
dictionaries must indicate the gender of Norwegian nouns. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Full YearTutor: To be confirmed (Danish), Elettra Carbone (Norwegian) & Annika Lindskog (Swedish)Teaching structure: The module structure incorporates independent reading,
one-to-one discussions with the tutor about the material and oral
presentations with the whole class, written exercises in the form of
the portfolio tasks, and a final essay at the end of the project. The
final essay is expected to show substantial knowledge and understanding
of the topic, as well as an advanced level of communicative and
expressive language skills. Assessment: portfolio work (100%). Module Description:The module aims to expand the vocabulary, oral skills and
written skills of students who already have a high level of fluency and
proficiency in their chosen language. It is designed to challenge all
students at their individual level and give them the maximum
opportunity to develop their own strengths within the framework of the module, while at the same time give the students the opportunity to
undertake a longer and more in-depth study of a specific topic that
relates to their main language.  The module comprises of individual language work on a
topic set by the module tutor each year. The primary skills to be
practised are reading, oral ability, and writing. The outcome of the module will be a portfolio of written work (3 pieces with a combined
length of min.1500 words, and 1 longer piece of about 1500-2000 words)
and one or more oral presentation/s throughout the module  Topics can include, but are not limited to, modern
literature, current social issues, cultural reviews, or a philosophical
or academic debate, and should be chosen with the abilities and talents
of the class and the individual students in mind. As a guide, a minimum
of the equivalent of five book-length texts should be read as basis for
the project. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Full YearTutor: Various (module tutor: Dr Jakob Stougaard-Nielsen
in term 1; Dr
Claire Thomson in term
2)  Teaching structure: 1-hour seminar per week, both teaching terms
Co-taught
and timetabled with:
SCANG001 Advanced Scandinavian Translation
 
Assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (60%); and three
written coursework/problem papers (40%). Module
Description: A
distinctive advantage of learning a Scandinavian language is the ability to
translate into English from all three (Danish, Norwegian, Swedish). This module
is designed to (a) provide practice in translation from the three languages,
(b) identify strategies for using knowledge of one Scandinavian language to
develop comprehension of the two, and (c) introduce translation theory and
apply it to practical translation tasks. The module is timetabled for one hour
per week throughout the academic year, in order to provide ample time to
develop skills. The first five weeks focus on translation theory, using a range
of authentic translations to identify approaches most relevant in the
Scandinavian context. Thereafter, classes cover a range of text-types and
genres across the three languages, organised in three language-specific blocs
of five weeks each. The module is team-taught by language specialists and with
occasional guest appearances from practising Scandinavian-English translators.
Students will be able to attend events relating to translation throughout the
year, including one or more briefing sessions on translation careers and
technological tools for translators.Preparatory Reading and Set
Texts: Mona
Baker, In Other Words: A
Coursebook on Translation,
London: Routledge, 2011. Lawrence
Venuti (ed.), The
Translation Studies Reader (Third
Edition), London: Routledge, 2012.
 
  You
should also familiarise yourself with UCL Library's Translation Studies resources
here: http://www.ucl.ac.uk/library/subject-support/guides/translation-studies Please
note that this module is assessed
by both coursework and examination. In order to allow students full coverage of
the module, the deadline for submission of the coursework is the beginning of
Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time to receive
feedback on the essay before the examination.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 300Term: Full YearConvenor: Dr Mart KuldkeppAssessment: 10,000 word essay (100%)
Available to:
final year undergraduate studentsModule
Description:The
dissertation is a compulsory element of the Scandinavian Studies degree. It is
an original academic work on a topic completely of your choosing. You can write
on any topic you like (so long as a staff member is willing to supervise it)
but are encouraged to write on a topic relating to your specialism (the
language, literature, culture, history etc. of the Scandinavian country you
have focused on during your studies).Students
decide on a topic and find a supervisor by the end of the first term of their
final year. They then research their project over the remaining part of their
final year and submit their dissertation as per deadline.Writing a
dissertation gives you an opportunity to pursue a topic of interest to you in
depth; to produce work that is based on original research; and to develop your
research techniques and skills in academic writing. It can be one of the most
satisfying parts of the degree and you can use it to draw together knowledge
you have acquired over the course of your studies. A successful dissertation
may well form the starting point for further, more independent work at the
postgraduate level, and it will be seen as an important indicator of an
aptitude for research.Important: cannot be taken in
conjunction with SCAN7203. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSPG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Helga LuthersdottirTeaching structure: 2-hour weekly seminar taught in English (joint with SCANG014), consisting of lectures, class discussions and student presentations.Moodle to be used as a repository for reading materials as well as forpreparatory assignments and forum discussions. This module is available to both Final 
Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: One coursework essay of 4,000 words (100%).PG Assessment: One coursework essay of 4,000 words (100%).Module Description:The module works with the idea of “crime literature” as a mode of reading rather than as a specific literary genre. The focus is on the effects of crime on small communities as presented in Icelandic and other Nordic literature predominately from the modern period, including Nordic noir. All assigned readings are in English, although students are welcome to read the texts in the source languages. No prior knowledge of Nordic languages or literature is required.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Because SCAN4204- Modern Icelandic Literature: Special Topics is a special topics module, primary 
readings, as well as topic-specific secondary readings reflect the 
specific topic to be offered and will be selected by tutor each time the module is offered. The lists below are specifically designed for the 
Special Topic: Crime in Small Numbers, to be taught in academic year 
2013-14. All readings are in English although students are welcome to 
read the texts in the source language.Primary Readings:Films: Secondary
Readings: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
PG Value: 30 credits Level: Advanced LevelTotal Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 1Tutor: Dr Erin GoeresTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. UG Assessment: one unseen three-hours written examination (70%) and one 2500-word essay (30%)PG Assessment: One 3,000-word essay (50%) and one three-hours written examination(50%)Module Description:This module forms the logical continuation of Intermediate Old Norse and will combine advanced translation with the in-depth analysis of four set
texts. The first term will focus on Egils
saga and its place within the wider context of the Íslendingasögur, konungasögur
and skáldasögur. The second term will
focus on the poems Eiríksmál and Hákonarmál, as well as the
‘Conversion Verses’ of Hallfreðr vandræðaskáld, set within the context of
Scandinavia’s conversion to Christianity.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: Reading lists will be provided for the
individual texts, but students are strongly advised to read the entirety of Egils saga in translation (available in
Penguin Classics, The Complete Sagas of
Icelanders or similar) before the start of term. The primary text that will be used for translation
will be Bjarni Einarsson’s edition, Egils
saga (London, 2003),  Students may also find it useful to read
any of the Sagas of Warrior-Poets,
ed. Diana Whaley (London, 2002), especially Hallfreðar
saga. Photocopies of the other set
texts will be provided. A useful introduction to Egils saga may be found in any of the following: Useful reference works: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1Tutor: Dr Haki AntonssonTeaching structure: The module will be taught
through a combination of lectures and seminars that will alternative between close
scrutiny of original sources and discussion of wider historical themes.Assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (70%); and one essay (30%).Module Description:The module will focus on
the impact the Vikings had on European society ca. 800-1050. Additionally, the emergence of “new
societies” as a result of Viking exploration in the North
 Atlantic will be examined. Geographically the module will include
Continental Europe, the Insular world, the North Atlantic colonies and Russia.
Particular emphasis will be placed on a close examination of the various
source-categories relevant to the study of the Vikings in Europe.
These sources were produced both from within and outside Scandinavia
and include, inter alia, written
sources, archaeological evidence, numismatics and place-names.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 0.5 course unitTutor: Dr Annika LindskogAssessment: 1 essay of 1,500 words (30%); 1 project of 3,000 words (70%).Module Description:What is a Nordic landscape? How have conceptions of landscape been
perceived, represented, modified and moderated in the Nordic region?
What is the function of landscape today, and how has the traditions of
landscape and landscape perception influenced life in the Nordic
region? This module takes as its starting point that any landscape
never just is, but is continuously appropriated by
inhabitants and observers though art, literature, film, and music, as
well as through activities such as tourism and policy making. Looking
at examples of landscape from historical through to urban landscapes
and the built environment, from the romantic and national landscape
through to today’s environmental and global awareness, and making use
of a wide variety of possible texts – novels and poetry, tourist
brochures and paintings, runestones and films, black metal and
symphonic music, political speeches and travel diaries – the module
aims to consider both the physical space and mental concepts of
landscape in the Nordic region, tracing representations of and rhetoric
around landscape across times and regions. We will work with both
theoretical concepts used in landscape theory and cultural geography,
and concrete and local examples through the written, visual, and aural
texts, trying to gain an understanding of not only the different
approaches to the Nordic landscapes that exist and have existed, but
also how these evolved and what impact they have had and still have.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:For further reading and week-by-week set reading, please refer to the module's moodle site.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1Tutor:  Dr Helga LuthersdottirTeaching structure: Assessment: one assessed 4000 word essay (100%).Module Description:Norse myths and medieval sagas have been the
source for “popular” cultural trends since the first nationalistic approach of
the Romantics in 19th century Europe. Today, such Norse-based representations
have established a distinct visual and thematic identity within popular culture
transcending national and cultural boundaries. Through study of the source
myths combined with theoretical analysis of various popular texts such as
fantasy and graphic novels, comic books, film, music, video games and MMORPGs
(massively multiplayer online role-playing games), this module will guide students
to situate these depictions within a larger theoretical framework of Nordic
studies and cultural theory, while simultaneously
enabling them to analyse their own relationship with the various
representations of the “popular Norse”.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Primary TextsFilmsSecondary TextsAdditional texts will be introduced as the module progresses. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Undergraduate
Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 15 ECTSPostgraduate
Value: 30 creditsUG Level: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Mart KuldkeppTeaching structure: this module is available to both Final Year students and MA students.
All students attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional
tutorial hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. Assessment for SCAN7310:
one unseen two-hour written examination (60%); and one 2500
word essay (40%).Assessment for SCANG017: one assessed 6000 word essay (100%).Available to: Final Year undergraduate students, MA students and affiliatesModule
Description:The Nordic
countries have often been regarded as ‘model’ societies, famous for their high
levels of economic prosperity, social equality and political stability. We will
discuss the historical roots of this distinctive ‘Nordic’ experience and how it
has changed since the end of the Cold War, as the Nordic countries have needed
to adopt to new regional, Europe-wide and global developments. This historical
introduction will be followed by a thematic examination of contemporary Nordic
societies in a comparative perspective, looking at the varied legacies of the
‘Nordic model’. Topics to be covered include Nordic foreign and security
policy, domestic politics and the rise of the populist right, immigration and
integration, crime and justice, gender equality, environmentalism and Nordic
co-operation. It should be noted that a focus on the Nordic countries will also
provide a new perspective on some of the most important developments affecting
the whole of Europe over the last 25 years. Preparatory reading and
set texts: There
are no set texts.  
 
 Notes: This Term 2 module is assessed by both essay and
examination. In order to allow students full coverage of the module, the
deadline for submission of the essay is the beginning of Term 3. In practice,
this will leave no or, at best, limited time to receive feedback on the essay
before the examination.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 300Term: Full YearTutor: Dr Haki AntonssonTeaching structure: The module will be taught through a combination of lectures and seminars.This module is also available as two one-term options, respectively: SCAN7405A - 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS (Term 1)SCAN7405B - 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS (Term 2)Assessment: SCAN 7405 is assessed by one unseen three-hour written examination (50%); and two 2,500 word essays (25% each).Parts A and B are each assessed by 2 essays each of 2500 words (50% each)Module Description:The module will examine society and culture in Scandinavia in the period ca. 800-1100. Geographically the module will encompass Sweden, Denmark Norway, and the Norse colonies in the North Atlantic (the Faroes, Iceland, and Greenland). In the case of Iceland the time-span will extend to the end of the Commonwealth period (ca. 1262). The principal themes that the module will cover include: the causes of the Viking Age; the development and emergence of the three Scandinavian kingdoms; the nature of the pre-Christian religion; the conversion to Christianity; the development of Church organisation; relation with Europe, in particular the Insular world and the beginning of written culture. Particular emphasis will be placed on presenting and analysing the various source-categories relevant to Viking-Age Scandinavia. These include, for example, runic inscriptions, place-names, archaeological evidence and saga literature.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Claire ThomsonTeaching structure: Runs in term 2 2017-18.
Consists of weekly screening plus weekly 2-hour seminarAssessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay (30%); and one assessed 4,000 word project (70%)Module Description:This unit has two main objectives: (a) to enable students to develop the skills to analyse films as
texts in their cultural and historical contexts, and (b) to provide an overview
of the development and range of Nordic film as art and industry, within the
broader context of European film history. The module is structured into three blocks, respectively covering early and silent cinema in Denmark, Norway and Sweden; three Nordic auteurs, Dreyer, Bergman and Kaurismäki; and the notion of contemporary 'small-nation cinema', covering Icelandic film, Dogme 95, intercultural cinema and transnational co-production. In 2015-16 the module runs in term 1, and consists of a weekly two-hour (approx) film screening with introduction, followed the next day by a two-hour seminar.  Students are expected to undertake
preparatory reading for lectures and seminars, to attend all
screenings and seminars, and
to watch additional films as necessary. A detailed course outline and week-by-week reading is available on the
module moodle site (UCL user id and login required).The first essay tests students' grasp of film analysis and their ability to apply it to particular films. The second piece of assessment is a project which is independently designed and researched by the student on a topic of his/her choice, under the guidance of the module tutor. Former students of the module have been able to publish outstanding project work under the auspices of the Norvik Press student writings series - see Framed Horizons below.No knowledge of a Scandinavian language is required as all films are subtitled (though a reading ability in a Scandinavian language does give access to a broader range of primary and secondary materials). Students from outside Scandinavian Studies are welcome to enrol, subject to available space.Key texts:   A
week-by-week reading list is provided at the start of the module. Students are
not expected to buy or read all of the texts below in advance; this list is
indicative only. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
30
UCL credits / 1.0 course units / 15 ECTS 
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 300
 Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2Tutor: various
Module convenors: Adolfo Sánchez Cuadrado & Marga Navarrete Teaching
structure:Assessment 2017-18:
Final Desk Exam with components of
Grammar, Composition in Spanish, Translation into Spanish and Translation into
English (50%); Oral Exam (20%);
Coursework (30%). The coursework consists of two grammar
quizzes, two oral presentations, two writing exercises in Spanish, two
translations into Spanish, and two translations into English. The
breakdown for coursework marks is 3% for each component.Assessment 2016-17: Module
Description:This is an advanced Spanish language
module designed for finalists, consolidating level C1 and exploring level C2 of
the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR). In the Grammar
and Communicative Skills classes, you will consolidate your skills acquired in
your Year Abroad. You will also improve your language proficiency by carrying
out tasks at C2 level (the highest of CEFR levels). Therefore, you will be
exposed and will have to use increasingly sophisticated language in a wider variety
of contexts and registers. Different varieties
of Spanish will be explored. The Translation classes will consolidate your
translation competences already acquired in the previous years. You will be
encouraged to make connections with your experience in the Year Abroad and
broaden your knowledge of Hispanic culture(s). Set Textbooks*:VV. AA. (2013), Nuevo
Prisma C2. Libro de ejercicios. Madrid: Edinumen. 160 pages. ISBN: 9788498482607. (Please note
that Nuevo Prisma C2 has two components, Libro del alumno and
Libro de ejercicios. Students are only required to buy the Libro
de ejercicios as referenced).VV. AA. (2012), Developing
Writing Skills in Spanish. London and New York: Routledge. 372 pages.
Hardback ISBN: 9780415590822. Paperback ISBN: 9780415590839. [Digital copy
available from UCL library]. *Students are required to get a copy of each book and are expected to bring them to their respective classes.
 
 Reference Grammar
(recommended):VV. AA. (2011, 2013),
A New Reference Grammar of Modern Spanish. 5th Edition. Oxon
y Nueva York: Routledge. 608 pages. ISBN: 9781444137699. [Digital copy
available for temporary download from UCL library, and permanent on-line viewing
from UCL library].VV.AA. (2011), Practising
Spanish Grammar. 3rd Edition. London: Routledge. 248 pages.
ISBN: 978-1444137705 [Digital copy available from UCL library]. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term/s: Term 1 (SPAN4001A) Term 2 (SPAN4001B)Tutor: Alejandro Bolanos-Garcia Escribano and Haydn KirnonAvailable to: Affiliate students who are native speakers of Spanish.Teaching structure: SPAN4001A (0.5cu) in term 1, SPAN4001B (0.5cu) in term 2. Assessment: Assessment is based on coursework (50% of the overall grade) and an unseen in-class final exam paper (50% of the overall grade).Module Description:This is a practical, advanced-level language module designed for native Spanish-speaking affiliate students. It consists of translation from Spanish into English as well as comprehension and discussion of English texts.The course is based on a weekly, 2-hour class which is split between guided translation, student presentations, and group discussions. Beyond the class, you will be expected to spend a further 4-6 hours per week working on coursework set by the tutor.The objectives of this course are:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 150  Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Maria Chiara D'ArgenioAssessment: one 3000 word essay (40%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (60%).Module Description:In this module,
we will study a number of avant-garde movements that emerged across Latin
America in the twentieth century. We will examine how these vanguard movements
responded to, and were influenced by, the social and political transformations
of various countries in the region. Through the work of Vicente Huidobro,
Felisberto Hernández, Manuel Maples Arce, Xul Solar, Oliverio Girondo, Nicolás
Guillén and César Vallejo we will explore fundamental notions brought to the
forefront by the vanguard movements, such as the category of the new, the place
and importance of the artists and of art in continuously changing societies,
the concepts of autonomy vs. socially and politically engaged art, and ideas of
‘rehumanization’ of art. We will examine the proposals of the Latin American
avant-garde movements, how they were influenced and articulated, and consider
their legacy in Latin America.This module is taught by lectures
and seminars which will include regular group discussion.Students
should read all the texts listed below and the supplementary readings indicated
by the course tutor before the allocated class.Texts:Introductory bibliography:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG) Term/s: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Humberto Núñez-FaracoTeaching Structure:This module is available to both
 Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG assessment:  one 3000 word essay (40%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (60%)PG assessment: one 6000 word essay (100%)Module Description: This module focuses on the work of Jorge Luis Borges, who is widely
recognized as the most influential writer in modern Spanish American
literature. It seeks to comprehend the
complexity of his work, from the nationalistic aspirations of the 1920s to the
universality of his mature writing.N.B. This module is taught in Spanish language
(seminars will be held in English).Methodology:All classes combine an initial 50-minute lecture followed by a
reading seminar or presentation. There will be a 5-minute pause in-between.
Students are kindly requested to read in advance the corresponding texts for
each week.Class notes will be posted on Moodle after each lecture/seminar. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This
module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may
be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsSPAN4117A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The module takes place at the same time as SPAN4117.Level: Advanced Level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG) Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Alexander SamsonTeaching Structure:This module is available to both
 Final Year students, affiliate students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: One essay (40%) and one two hour examination (60%). 
PG Assessment: One 6,000 word essay.SPAN4117A Assesment: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Module Description:Often described as the best book of all
time, Miguel de Cervantes’s Don Quixote
has also been credited with being the first novel. Cervantes described his
world and the people around him with an exceptional combination of sympathy and
wit. Acutely observed, Cervantes’s fiction is also very funny. Only Shakespeare
is widely attributed with equal brilliance.But while Don Quixote is at the core of this course, we will also read one of his Novelas ejemplares, 'Rinconete
y Cortadillo'.The roots of Cervantes’s genius are his
own experience (he led an accident-ridden but exciting life during which he was
decorated for bravery in battle and imprisoned while working as a taxman) and
his own reading and interest in the theatre (for he was a playwright before he
invented the novel). The course will touch on the chivalric literature parodied
in Don Quixote while also introducing
students to Humour Theory and its relevance to the Cervantine cannon.Please note that students will be
expected to have read at least Part I of Don Quijote de la Mancha by the start of term.Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS   Level: Advanced Level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Joana Rita RamalhoAssessment: one assessed 3,000 word essay (40%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (60%). In the exam, students must answer questions on films not studied for the coursework essay. Module Description: This module examines the
development of Spanish film from the late 1990s onwards focusing on issues
such as gender, migration, genre, the k;influence of Hollywood and the increasing
globalisation of the film industry. Films (subject to availability):Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(SPAN4307A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The module takes place at the same time as SPAN4307.) Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Term 1 Tutor: Professor Stephen HartAssessment: SPAN4307: One 3,000 word coursework essay (40%), and one, two hour exam (60%).
SPAN4307A: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module Description:Cultural Dilemmas II analyses cultural dilemmas in a selection of Latin
American texts and films with particular reference to the avant-garde,
the "Boom" novel  and the
"slick grit" of contemporary Latin American film. Schedule:Week 1: The
avant-garde in Latin AmericaWeek 2: The
avant-garde in Latin AmericaWeek 3: Gabriel
García Márquez, El amor en los tiempos del cólera (1985) (novel)Week 4: Gabriel
García Márquez, El amor en los tiempos del cólera (1985) (novel)Week 5: Alejandro
González Iñárritu, Amores
perros (2000) (film)Week 6: Alejandro
González Iñárritu, Amores
perros (2000) (film)Week 7: Walter
Salles, Diarios de
motocicleta (2004) (film)Week 8: Walter
Salles, Diarios de
motocicleta (2004) (film)Week 9:
Alfonso Cuarón, Gravity (2013)Week 10: Alfonso
Cuarón, Gravity (2013) Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term/s: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Maria Chiara D'ArgenioTeaching Structure:This module is available to both
 Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG assessment: One
3000-word essay (40%) and a two-hour desk exam (60%)PG assessment: One 6000-word essay (100%)Module
Description:This module examines the portrayal of the city in Latin American
culture in a variety of genres (including essays, novels, short stories and
films) and analyses the roles urban spaces have played within perceptions and
projections of individual and national identities in different parts of the
region at different times during the twentieth and twenty-first centuries. Classes will take the form of lectures
followed by seminars involving discussion and close analysis of the primary
texts/films studied.Please note that this Term 2
module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination.Preparatory
Reading and a Selection of Course Texts/Films and supplementary texts:Key Theoretical Readings:Primary Texts:* You should investigate sources for the primary texts as early as possible (some may need to be delivered from the US)* Extensive supplementary reading lists will be provided at the beginning of the coursePlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(SPAN4400A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The module takes place at the same time as SPAN4400.)Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS   Level: Advanced Level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term/s: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Adrian PearceAssessment: SPAN4400: Two 2,000-word essays (each weighted at 50%)SPAN4400A: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). 
Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module description:This module
discusses the history of Latin America during the past two centuries, a period
during which it took on many of the key characteristics which define it today.
Powerful but disfunctional states, and populist, personalist politics; great
wealth contrasting with widespread poverty and social disenfranchisement; sprawling
mega-cities where Spanish is to all intents and purposes the only game in town,
while in some rural regions, millions speak native languages; stark problems of
racism and racial discrimination, within societies that regard themselves as
multi-cultural; and a strong love-hate relationship with the United States, all
these are the product of trends developing across the two hundred years since Independence. The first sessions are devoted
to the nineteenth century, and look at the political and economic aftermath of
Independence and the “Age of Caudillos”, in the period from the 1820s to the
1870s; slavery and abolition in Latin America, and their consequences for
Afro-Latin Americans; the Belle Epoque
(for elites) of the period from the 1870s to 1920s, that left such a striking
architectural legacy in cities such as Buenos Aires; and the ongoing
relationship of Spain with Latin America during the nineteenth century, to the
loss of Cuba and Puerto Rico in 1898.Later sessions are devoted to
the twentieth century, and begin with the mass immigration from Europe that
reshaped the region and many of its countries between the 1870s and the 1930s.
We then look at dominant political forms from the 1930s onwards, as they passed
through populism and authoritarianism, to the military regimes of the 1960s and
1970s. A related class considers the role of revolution in modern Latin
America, from Mexico in 1910 to Cuba in 1959. We then discuss democratisation
and social change in the period from the 1970s through to the 2000s. Two final
sessions consider modern Latin American history from an external perspective
and from a distinctive domestic viewpoint: firstly, through the prism of (often
troubled) relationships with the United States, and secondly of (equally
problematic) relations between indigenous peoples and nation states, with
particular focus on the Andean region. Indicative Bibliography (a full bibliography will be distributed at the start of the course). General historiesBrown, Matthew, From Frontiers to
Football: An Alternative History of Latin America since 1800 (London,
2014).Fowler,
Will, Latin America since 1780 (Modern
History for Modern Languages) 3rd ed. (London, 2015).Holden, Robert, and Rina Villars, Contemporary
Latin America (London, 2012).Primary source collections in EnglishBuffington, Robert, and Lila Caimari (eds.), Keen’s Latin American Civilization: A Primary Source Reader, vol.
2, The Modern Era 10th ed.
(Boulder, COL., 2016).See also the excellent country-specific “Reader” series of collections of
key documents in translation, published by Duke University Press, for which
volumes currently exist for Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Costa Rica, Cuba,
Ecuador, Guatemala, Mexico, Paraguay, and Peru (a volume for Colombia is
forthcoming in December 2016).Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: (30 postgraduate credits)  Level: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG Term/s: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Gareth WoodTeaching Structure:This module is available to both
 Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG assessment: One 3,000 word coursework essay (50%) and one, two hour exam (50%).PG assessment: One 6,000 word coursework essay (100%). Module Description:This module will examine the changing ways in which the Spanish Civil War and subsequent dictatorship have been represented in the contemporary Spanish novel. Although Spain’s transition from Franco’s thirty-six year dictatorship to democracy has been considered a success-story, underlying tension and resentment between the opposing sides of the country’s political divide remain. A country in which the defeated of the war were treated as second-class citizens and their dead comrades excluded from official commemoration of the victims clearly has some catching up to do when it comes to national reconciliation. Spain's novelists have reflected this situation through their works, questioning the national silence over the uncomfortable past during the transition to democracy and, in more recent times, joining the national debate on how best to acknowledge both sides of the fratricidal conflict.  This half-course unit will take in the period immediately after Franco's death, when writers tried to negotiate their way through the political minefield of discussing the war and dictatorship when the on-going transition made those topics taboo. The novels we shall read and discuss seek to evade or confront these taboos in a variety of genres including the fictional memoir/fantastic novel, social realism, and the trauma narrative.Students who participate in this module will gain an insight into Spain's twentieth century history, the factors that determine its past and present political make-up, and how those have shaped debates that are continuing as we speak.More importantly, they will also read and enjoy six thought-provoking and engaging novels from the last three decades by some of the best writers of that period.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:The primary phase: the Transition to democracy (0.5 CU)Primary textsA secondary bibliography would include: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150  Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Deborah MartinAssessment: one essay (40%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (60%) Module Description:This module will focus on the representation of children in
film, with special attention to the kind of function childhood fulfills in
Latin American cinema. This will allow us to explore thematic questions of
nationhood, politics, gender and sexuality, and the way childhood is used to
envision the past and history, as well as the future and social change. We will
also consider questions specific to cinematic and visual representation, such
as whether and how filmmakers attempt to create a child’s view of the world
through aesthetic means, and ethical questions arising around the
representation of child suffering and death.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:FilmsInitial Secondary BibliographyPlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(SPAN4414A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The module takes place at the same time as SPAN4414.)Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Advanced Level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term/s: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Humberto Núñez-FaracoAssessment: SPAN4414: 3000 word coursework essay (40%), unseen 2 hour desk examination (60%).SPAN4414A: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module Description:The Peruvian writer, folklorist and ethnologist José María Arguedas
(1911-1969) is not only the most prominent representative of the neo-indigenist
literary movement in the Andean region but also one of its most acute
interpreters, particularly with respect to the cultural values and traditions
of the Quechua communities of his native country. This course explores
Arguedas’s vivid representation of the Andean world through a careful reading
of some of his most important literary and ethnological works. From his early
short stories and novels—in which he draws from his own personal experiences
among the Indians of the southern sierra—to his insightful essays on the historical
development of Andean mestizo culture and society, Arguedas captures
the spirit of a people that have endured centuries of oppression and, at the
same time, presents a challenging economic model for its social and political
survival.N.B. This module is taught in Spanish
(seminar discussions are held in English) Methodology: All classes combine an initial 50-minute lecture followed by group
discussion (seminar), with a 5-minute pause in-between. Students are requested to read in advance the corresponding texts for
each seminar and to bring to class their notes from reading.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Historical and anthropological
essays:Narrative:Verse:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term/s: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Tyler FisherTeaching Structure:This module is available to both
 Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG assessment: one 3000-word
coursework essay (40%), and one 3000-word portfolio (60% [comprising the student's
selection of original, revised microcuentos (15%), and reflective commentary
(45%)]).PG assessment: one 4000-word coursework essay (40%), and one 3000-word portfolio.Module Description:This
module examines the
poetics and practice of microcuentos, or short-short stories, in modern
Hispanic literature. It involves literary analysis of particular texts, the
broader study of the genre in context, and the composition of original Spanish
prose. The creative, compositional component will necessarily review and build
on the grammar and vocabulary that students have mastered in their degree
course to this point. While refining their Spanish linguistic skills, students
will have the opportunity to engage with fundamental questions about how
language and narrative work in miniature. The
module tutor convenes and facilitates lectures and seminars. All course
information will be made available via Moodle, as well as many of the primary
texts for lectures and seminars. You may start reading for this module before
classes begin. Key readings are marked with an asterisk in the list of texts.Preparatory
Reading and Set Texts: *Juan
Pedro Aparicio, Luis Mateo Díez, and José María Merino, Palabras en la nieve: Un filandón. *Cuentos breves y extraordinarios, eds.
Jorge Luis Borges and Adolfo Bioy Casares. *Entre ínsulas y penínsulas: haiku narrativo
y otros microcuentos, ed. Tyler Fisher. Augusto
Monterroso, La oveja negra y demás
fábulas.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Can I attend an Open Day?Yes, SELCS is represented by the Admissions Officer and Admissions Tutor at the following:Alternatively, if you are unable to attend either of these events then you may take:Finally, you may contact Undergraduate Admissions Officer to make an appointment to visit SELCS (visit Contact Us).How do I make an application to SELCS?All applicants interested in pursuing a SELCS degree programme on a full-time basis should submit a UCAS application by 15th January. Any applications made to UCAS after the 15th January will only be considered if there is still availability on the particular  programme you have applied for. More information about making an application can be found on the UCAS website. As soon as we receive your application we will write to you personally to request your language combination or language choice (for BA Modern Language, BA Modern Language Plus, BA Language and Culture and BA Comparative Literature). Can I apply for more than one SELCS degree programme?Yes, that's absolutely fine. If you do decide to do this then ensure that your UCAS personal statement caters to both degree programmes you have applied for.Does SELCS accept deferred entry applications?SELCS is happy to receive applications from prospective students who would like to take a gap year. If your decision to take a year out before starting university is related to your studies you may want to mention this in your UCAS form personal statement.How difficult is it to secure a place in SELCS?The ratio of applicants to place across SELCS is approximately 9 applications for every place available. The rate differs across the School's programmes, and can also fluctuate from year-to-year. Although this statistic can seem very daunting, as long as you are predicted, or have achieved, the relevant entry requirements then you are eligible to be considered for a place and should not be put off making an application.What subjects does SELCS prefer?SELCS doesn't ask that students study a particular combination of subjects other than the subjects necessary for the programme that you wish to pursue (see the "entry requirements" tab for further information). UCL preferred subjectsHow important is the personal statement of my UCAS form?The personal statement is a very important to help us to make informed decisions about whether an application should be considered further, and ultimately be the recipient of an offer. The Admissions Team look at the quality of writing in English, critical perceptiveness, depth of reading in the target language, intellectual acuity and curiosity. Evidence of interest in, motivation and an understanding of the literature, culture and society you have chosen to study, as well as an awareness of what studying foreign language(s) at university entails are also important. Finally, we look to see that you have understood the nature of the degree programme within SELCS to which you have applied and any extramural experiences relevant to your potential studies, such as volunteering and creative activities.What if I am applying to SELCS for a course that isn't available elsewhere? How do I tailor my personal statement?We are aware that some of our courses are only available at UCL, and you are applying for 5 choices with your UCAS form and personal statement. We do not require an additional personal statement as part of your application. Try to focus on the relevant skills that are relevant to all the courses you are applying for.Can I study any languages ab initio?You can study the majority of our languages ab inition (from beginners level) apart from French and Spanish, we only teach these languages at advanced level (post A-level or equivalent).The SELCS languages which can be studied ab initio are Dutch, German, Italian. Portugese and the Scandinavian languages (Danish, Icelandic, Norwegian and Swedish).If you wish to study Spanish or French ab initio (from below A-level standard) then you should consdier the BA Language & Culture. This degree programme has specifically been designed to increase the flexibility of language choices to SELCS students. With this in mind, students are able to study any of our languages on offer ab initio through either the specific language department or the UCL Centre for Languages and International Education (CLIE).Are mature students welcome to apply to a SELCS degree?Yes. SELCS tries to be as flexible as possible when it comes to mature students (people who are 21 years old at the point of entry to university). With the study of languages it is obviously important that you can demonstrate your aptitude for languages, therefore, you may find it worthwhile to contact the Undergraduate Admissions Officer to discuss your eligibility (visit Contact Us).What is the SELCS stance upon resits and/or taking three years to pass my A Levels?We are happy for prospective SELCS students to resit elements of their study to improve upon their original marks. If this means that your A-Level studies (or equivalent) take longer than the usual period of time, this is absolutely fine. If you do resit any elements of your exams it is very helpful for this to be - briefly - mentioned in your UCAS form as it helps to explain any information that may seem unusual.Does SELCS admit students via Clearing?The SELCS Admissions Tutors make more offers than the School has places available which means that SELCS does not participate in UCAS Clearing.Does UCL offer Halls of Residence accommodation?Yes. UCL guarantees Hall of Residence accommodation to all prospective students that choose UCL as their firm choice institution and have made an on-time application for accommodation to Student Residences (by 31st May of your year of entry).What careers can I go on to have as a graduate of SELCS?Languages equip you for a wide range of careers including everything from business, finance, the media, journalism, law and hospitality to public relations, the police, advertising, translation and interpreting, and teaching. As well as a very full programme of recruitment and other events, the UCL Careers Service run specific events advertising international and overseas career opportunities every year, targeting our undergraduates.How can I find out more about the academics across SELCS?Visit People pageWhat are Interdepartmental Modules?The Interdepartmental Modules or European Languages, Culture and Society (ELCS) modules are the modules run by SELCS (as opposed to the individual departments of the School). These modules are taught by academics from across the School which allows SELCS students to tap into the expertise of academics that are from outside of their home department. ELCS modules are usually based around literature, history, linguistics and film.View Interdepartmental ModulesHow does the year abroad work?SELCS offers a full range of possible options for the Year Abroad, depending upon your degree programme, which is a compulsory part of all our programmes (except BA Comparative Literature). We have educational exchanges with universities from Buenos Aires to Berlin, from Paris to Rome. It is also possible to teach English through the British Council Assistantship scheme in a school, or undertake a work placement or internship (subject to approval).The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Studying abroad is an exciting and highly rewarding, though often challenging experience, and one that will remain with you for the rest of your life. The experiences and skills developed while abroad further academic and personal development, cultural and social awareness, provide a foundation for further study and enhance career prospects (The Guardian, The Telegraph).The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes, which enables students to:•   Learn substantial new
academic and, in some cases, professional skills•   Develop spoken and
written language skills to a near-native level of proficiency•   Gain in-depth
knowledge of the culture they are studying•   Become independent and travel more widely•   Get ready for an international workplace•   Make new friends and contacts while learningYou can spend your Year Abroad studying at a partner university, teaching English in a school abroad via British Council, or organise a work placement for yourself. Click on a relevant link below for more information:•   Dutch•   French•   German•   Italian•   Portuguese•   Scandinavian Languages•   Spanish•   Students studying one language spend the whole Year Abroad in a country where the language is spoken.•   Students studying two languages split the Year Abroad between two countries where their target languages are spoken.•   Language and Culture BA and Comparative Literature BA students spend the full year at a university where the main language they are studying is spoken or they can apply for a British Council placement.•   'One language - one placement' rule: students studying one language cannot split their year between two institutions.•   Students splitting 
their Year Abroad between two countries must check and ensure the dates
 of the two placements do not overlap.•   Students are required to complete the full term of their allocated university placement, language assistantship or work placement.Students from other UCL departments should
consult their programme tutors and administrators about their Year Abroad
arrangements.The central UCL Study Abroad Team will advise students on all aspects of fees and funding for their Year Abroad. Please refer to their Finance webpage for more information.Some students may have visa requirements for some placements. The central UCL Study Abroad Team will provide guidance on this.Year Abroad modules are pass/fail only and do not contribute to the calculation of the degree classification. Year 2 students and students currently abroad should refer to the Year Abroad chapter of the SELCS UG Students Handbook on Moodle and to guidance on the central UCL Study Abroad Team website for more information and support.Please note: Information is accurate at the time of publication. The placement options are revised and the number of study places at partner universities is negotiated on an annual basis. This means that options may be subject to change, study places do fluctuate or partnerships can be pulled altogether, with very little notice. Please do remember this when you're thinking about your Year Abroad options and remember - the key to becoming a Global Citizen is to have an open mind!The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 The School of European Languages & Culture (SELCS)
comprises the Departments of Dutch, French, German, Italian, Scandinavian Studies and Spanish & Latin
American Studies. For the full
range of Programmes offered by each department, and more information on 
what each Programme offers, please visit the departments using the links below.UCL houses the largest centre for Dutch Studies in the English-speaking world. Find out more about our Programmes of study and Research.The department is at the cutting edge of current debate in French literature, culture, politics and film and is consistently ranked among the best in the world.The department is an interdisciplinary centre of excellence, offering the study of language and linguistics, literature, history, politics, theory and film.One of the biggest Italian departments in the UK, UCL Italian leads on all periods of Italian literature, from Dante to the present day.The department teaches the language, literature, history, linguistics and visual culture of Denmark, the Faroe Islands, Iceland, Norway and Sweden.Established in 1828 by Antonio Alcalá Galiano, the Department was one of the first in the UK and remains today a centre of academic excellence.With its exceptional range of modern and ancient languages and cultures, UCL provides a comprehensive environment for comparative literary study.This distinctive and highly flexible programme provides enormous scope for you to customise your degree according to your interest in languages, linguistics, film, literature and history.SELCS staff also provide the teaching within the following centres:Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				View of the Grand Canal from Rialto to Ca'Foscari - By Didier DescouensMany degree combinations and more.We offer Italian classes whatever your level....and read their experiences of studying at UCL....their exciting research makes for inspiring tuitionAnd apply!
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Third Floor, Foster Court, Malet Place, off Torrington Place, London, WC1E 6BT(Bloomsbury Campus - see UCL maps)
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				View of the Grand Canal from Rialto to Ca'Foscari - By Didier DescouensMade in Italy is a new series of evening courses
offering a uniquely comprehensive approach to learning the culture and history
of Italy.Since it started in 2015, our range of courses attracts adult
learners who wish to explore Italy’s cultural heritage and contemporary culture
through art, texts, literature and films.Joining our evening courses gives you access to the
world-renowned Italian department at UCL. Experts in the field will adapt and
share their research to make your learning experience profound and enjoyable at
the same time. 
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 From Cabiria to the Present: Key
Moments in Italian Cinema (Monday, 10 weeks in Term 3)   This
module will examine key moments and trends in Italian cinema from the early 20th century to the present day. The course will cover silent cinema, Neorealism, political films,
comedies and noir. It will look at the work of internationally famed directors
such as Roberto Rossellini, Luchino Visconti, Ettore Scola, Pietro Germi,
Bernardo Bertolucci, and Paolo Sorrentino. Module taught by Dr Cristina Massaccesi, Dr
Lucia Rinaldi and Dr Marta Niccolai
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 If you have no formal qualification in the subject of Medieval and
Renaissance studies but you have a strong interest and have pursued the subject
independently, attendance to two or more Made in Italy courses on Medieval and
Renaissance studies will allow you to apply for an MA  in Medieval Renaissance Studies.  Please check their entry requirements
under MA degree (Prospective students).     1) Introduction to Renaissance studies (Thursday,
10 weeks in Term 3) The module will cover the period of the 1500, in particular,
the debate between religion and astronomy with the controversial figure of
Galileo Galilei, the question of etiquette and morality through The Book of the Courtier by Baldassarre
di Castiglione, and great leaders, laws and arms discussed by Niccolò Machiavelli
in his famous The Prince. Module taught by Andrew Campbell. 2) The Renaissance genius (Tuesday, 10 weeks in Term 2) This unique module will explore the concept of ‘genius’
through the concept of the ideal Renaissance man and the classical concept of humanitas .  Are humans limitless in their capacity for
development? What lessons can we draw from the idea of universal education?
Through seminars, analyses of texts and images, the course will illustrate the
multifaceted reality of some of the greatest thinkers of the Renaissance and of
all times, namely, Leon Battista Alberti, Leonardo da Vinci and Michelangelo
Buonarroti.  Module taught by Dr Tiziana Provvidera. 3) Magicians and Philosophers in the Renaissance (Monday, 10 weeks in Term 2)   This unique module explores the notion of ‘magic’ within
some fundamental philosophical and historical issues relevant during the
Renaissance. The notion of Magic, the practice of prophecy and divination and
its condemnation by the Church, will be discussed through the works of Marsilio
Ficino, Giordano Bruno, Tommaso Campanella and Pico della Mirandola.Module taught by Dr Tiziana Provvidera.4) Living at the birth of the Renaissance, between
1350 and 1650(Wednesday, 10 weeks in Term 3) The Renaissance is traditionally considered to
be a moment of rebirth, but what was the experience of those living through the
period? This unique module will examine different perspectives on the
Renaissance, using literature and historical sources to build up a picture of
the transition from the late Middle Ages to the Renaissance. We will explore
the lives of those involved in printing, practising religion in confraternities
and convents, dealing with healthcare in hospitals and during epidemics, and debating
what the Italian language should look like in the Questione della Lingua.  Module taught by Dr Alexandra Lee.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				For further information regarding the course curriculum
please write to the convenor, Marta Niccolai, marta.niccolai@ucl.ac.uk and for
modules administration please contact the Italian Departmental office on 0207
6797784 or email: italian.office@ucl.ac.uk
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				  All classes take place between 6 and 8 pm and are located in the Italian department, 3rd floor, Foster Court  (Malet Place).    Magicians and Philosophers in the RenaissanceDay: Mondays from 6pm to 8pmDuration: 10 weeks, from January 8th 2018 to March 19th 2018Room: FC351  The Renaissance GeniusDay: Tuesdays from 6pm to 8pmDuration:  10 weeks, from January 9th 2018 to March 20th 2018Room: FC331  College Reading week: starts 12th February 2018 (no classes)From Cabiria to the present: key moments in Italian cinemaDay: Mondays from 6pm to 8pmDuration: 10 weeks, from 23rd April 2018 to 25th June 2018Room: FC351Living at the birth of the Renaissance, between 1350 and 1650Day: Wednesdays from 6pm to 8pmDuration: 10 weeks, from 25th of April to 27th of JuneRoom: FC351Introduction to Renaissance studies Day: Thursdays from 6m to 8pmDuration: 10 weeks, from 26th April 2018 to 28th June 2018Room: FC331
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				No formal entry qualification but a curiosity of Italy and
its culture is required. Basic knowledge of Italian can be beneficial but not
essential, should some handouts be in the original language.  Enrolment for each individual module is mandatory. We encourage you to enrol as early as possible by
completing the enrolment form and send it to the Made in Italy
convenor,  Dr Marta Niccolai at marta.niccolai@ucl.ac.uk.Module fee: £350Senior fee: £250UCL staff: £300Students: £200 To confirm your
enrolment together with your payment, we need to receive your enrolment form. Payment can be made online (Online store, see links below) or by
cheque. Please make cheques payable to ‘University College London’ and send to: Made In Italy
 Department of Italian
 School of European Languages, Culture &
Society
 University College London
 Gower Street
 London WC1E 6BTIntroduction to
Renaissance studies The Renaissance
Genius Magicians and
Philosophers in the RenaissanceFrom Kabiria to the present: key moments in
Italian cinemaLiving at the birth of the Renaissance, between
1350 and 1650
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Classes are taught through lectures, seminars, presentations and group works.Sessions are delivered in English with material provided in English and some in Italian.The reading material will be made available on the online course Moodle that will be made accessible to enrolled students.Made in Italy is convened by Dr Marta Niccolai.Modules will be taught by experts in their
field and you will have access to a wealth of knowledge, experience and
research.One 2 hour session a week
delivered over 5 weeks (10 hours in total) or 10 weeks (20 hours in total). For
further details see: Times, Dates and Locations.There is no formal assessment of
these modules. Outcomes are based on students’ own ability and progression.A certificate of attendance is issued with 70% attendance of a
course.If you have no formal qualification in the subject of Medieval and
Renaissance studies but you have a strong interest and have pursued the subject
independently, attendance to two or more Made in Italy courses on Medieval and
Renaissance studies will allow you to apply for an MA in Medieval Renaissance
StudiesPlease check their entry requirements under MA degree (Prospective
students) http://www.ucl.ac.uk/mars.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The calendar (including some special screenings) will
be posted on the film club's blog page. The movies will be in Italian with Italian or English 
subtitles and will be introduced by Dr Cristina Massaccesi (contact: 
c.massaccesi@ucl.ac.uk).
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Our staff are not just teachers: they are among the leading
researchers in many areas of Italian Studies, including linguistics, Dante, the
Renaissance, modern and contemporary literature, modern historical and cultural
studies, cinema, art and design history. UCL Italian students are the first
beneficiaries of all that expertise, through courses that reflect cutting-edge
thinking on a host of different subjects. Read more...Professor in Italian StudiesLecturer in Italian HistorySenior Lecturer in ItalianProfessor of Italian Cultural HistorySenior Teaching Fellow and Italian Language CoordinatorReader in Italian and Comparative LiteratureProfessor in Italian Literature and Writer in ResidenceSenior Teaching FellowProfessor in LinguisticsReader in Early Modern Italian StudiesReader in Italian StudiesAnd apply!
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Our staff are not just teachers: they are among the leading
researchers in many areas of Italian Studies, including linguistics, Dante, the
Renaissance, modern and contemporary literature, modern historical and cultural
studies, cinema, art and design history. UCL Italian students are the first
beneficiaries of all that expertise, through courses that reflect cutting-edge
thinking on a host of different subjects. Our
students quickly sense that they are in a hive of research activity. We hold
lively research seminars, open to all, with frequent contributions from
international scholars based in Italy, the rest of Europe, and the USA. We have
a high profile in the UK and world media. Several members of staff appear
regularly on radio and TV in the UK, Italy and beyond as experts in their
discipline; members of staff have also written frequently for the press.
Professor Robert Lumley has collaborated closely with Tate Modern and other
galleries, curating and writing on Italian contemporary art. In 2015, Dr
Catherine Keen and Professor John Took were involved in a series of events at
the Italian Cultural Institute to celebrate the 750th anniversary of Dante's
birth. In 2016, Professor John Dickie's history of Italian food was turned into
a six-part series on Italian television, which Prof Dickie presented himself.
We are the only UK Italian department with a writer-in-residence, Enrico
Palandri. Several members of staff have been awarded civil honours (the
equivalent of the British MBE or OBE) for their research by the President of
the Italian Republic.  UCL has an
unrivalled range of research resources on its doorstep. There is nowhere in
Britain that affords students such wonderful facilities for private study, and
such rich opportunities to work on first-hand Italian source material for their
essays and dissertations. UCL Library
is the largest and oldest college library in the University of London. It has
four special collections that include early Italian books: the Rotton and Ogden
collections (roughly 80,000 volumes), as well as the Castiglione and Dante
collections. All told, UCL library has a better holding of pre-twentieth
century Italian books than any other higher education institution in the UK. Students
also have access to the 14 million books in the nearby British Library (not
forgetting an astonishing 164 million other items, ranging from manuscripts to
sound recordings). As well as being a copyright library, entitled by law to a
copy of every book published in the UK, the British Library has the largest
collection of early printed books anywhere in the world. The number of Italian
publications is particularly large owing to influence of Antonio Panizzi,
founder of the library in its modern form and the first Professor of Italian at
UCL nearly two hundred years ago. The British
Newspaper Library at Colindale contains many Italian newspapers. The library of
the British Film Institute is a short walk away; it holds most of the major
Italian film periodicals published since the 1930s and many books on Italian
cinema. In addition, students have easy access to the libraries of the
Institute of Historical Research, the University of London in Senate House, the
Warburg Institute, the LSE, the Courtauld Institute, and the Wellcome Trust. 
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				All seminars are held on Wednesdays from 6pm in the Italian Seminar Room, Room 351, 
Third Floor, Foster Court, Malet Place, UCL, Gower Street, London, WC1E 
6BT (unless otherwise stated). View map (PDF)Maurizio Ferraris Learning from Post-Truth6.30 pm - Garwood Lecture Theatre, Room 9, First Floor, South Wing, UCL, Gower StreetMassimo Fusillo  Negative Empathy, Fear, Catharsis: An Intermedial Itinerary5.30pm - Foster Court 307Marco
Pescetelli         
Filologia e
restauro dei silent film Silvia
Costantino, Severino Antonelli, Claudia Durastanti      
 The Florentine Magazine:
exploring contemporary Italian writers David Lines               
 Teaching Language(s) at the University of
Bologna in the Sixteenth and Seventeenth Centuries: Practices and Debates Alessandro
Baronciani Comics, Sirens
and Self-Production  MODERN ITALIAN HISTORY SEMINAR SERIES - SPRING TERM 2016Conveners: Ilaria Favretto (Kingston), Maurizio Isabella (QMUL), Axel Körner (UCL), Carl Levy (Goldsmiths) All
meetings will take place on Wednesdays
at 5:30 in the Past &
Present Room (202) of the Institute of Historical Research, Senate House (Malet
St, London, WC1E 7HU), unless
otherwise stated. For updated information see http://www.history.ac.uk24 February 2016 - Book launch  Enrico dal Lago (NUI Galway), The Age of Lincoln and Cavour: Comparative Perspectives on Nineteenth-Century American and Italian Nation-Building. New York: Palgrave, 2015 William Lloyd Garrison and Giuseppe
Mazzini: Abolition, Democracy, and Radical Reform. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State
University Press, 2013Discussants: Eugenio Biagini (Cambridge), Nico Pizzolato (Middlesex)Chair: Axel Körner (UCL) 2 March 2016 - 3:00 pm - 7:30 pmInstitute of Advanced Studies, UCL, South Wing, Room G09, Gower Street, LondonVisual Storytelling. Examples from ItalyOrganized by the
AHRC-funded research project “Interdisciplinary Italy 1900-2020:
Interart/Intermedia” and hosted by the UCL Institute of Advanced Studies, this
multidisciplinary symposium explores the rich diversity of visual and verbal
art in contemporary Italy. We are delighted to welcome the illustrator and
painter Tullio Pericoli, one of Italy’s most distinguished contemporary
artists, who will speak, in conversation with Prof. Simona Corso (Roma Tre),
about how literature has shaped his artistic imagination. Interartistic
creativity will be envisaged as a constantly changing, dynamic field of
investigation, which has been, and continues to be, a driving force of modern
art. We will begin with a plenary lecture by the poet and scholar Prof. Jan
Baetens Professor of Cultural Studies at the University of Leuven and a leading
authority on literature and the visual arts. The afternoon will end with a
roundtable, chaired by Dr Florian Mussgnug (UCL), which will include
contributions by Dr Pierpaolo Antonello (Cambridge), Prof. Timothy Mathews
(UCL) and Dr Giuliana Pieri (Royal Holloway).This event is part of the project "Interdisciplinary Italy". You can find more information here: www.interdisciplinaryitaly.orgThe event is free, but please register at https://www.eventbrite.com/e/visual-storytelling-examples-from-italy-tickets-21079376984For further
information, please download the programme here or contact the organizer: f.mussgnug@ucl.ac.uk Francesca Pola (art curator)Arte Contemporanea a Villa Pisani Marco Mondini (ISIG-FBK)The War Life Experience in Italian First World War Autobiographical WritingSimone Brioni (SUNY) - Unfortunately due to unforseem circumstances this seminar has been cancelled.Race, Gender and the ‘Aliens’ in Luce D’Eramo’s Partiranno (1986) Ruth Ben-Ghiat (NYU) - Unfortunately this seminar has been cancelled.Italian Fascism’s Empire Cinema Francesca Medaglia (Lincei + BA)Allegory and Psychology in Multi-authorship WritingAlessandro GuettaItalian Jewish Intellectuals' usage of Hebrew and Italian in the late Renaissance Silvia Contarini
(Université Paris Ouest Nanterre La DéfenseLetteratura italiana e multiculturalitàDavide Dalmas (Università di Torino)Letteratura italiana e Riforma protestante: un
incontro impossibile?Claude Perrus (Université Sorbonne
Nouvelle – Paris 3)Come
leggere la Commedia di
Dante: la lezione dei poeti (Eliot, Mandelstam, e altri)Jane Tylus (New York University)Pastoral, Peasants, and Portraits of Rural Life in the Renaissance: Ruzante, the Rozzi, and Shakespeare Marie-José Tramuta (Université de Caen)Alberto Savinio e l'Europa: un artista pellegrino sotto il segno di MercurioGiulia Ammannati and Francesco Giancane
(Scuola Normale Superiore di Pisa)Le
epigrafi di Poggio Mirteto: la scoperta di una lauda di
inizio TrecentoThursday 16 October 2014Department of History of Art (20-21 Gordon Square, London  WC1H 0AG)Seminar Room 36pmAra H. Merjian (New York University)Painting in Chains: Giorgio de Chirico’s Willful
ClaustrophiliaPart of the History of Art research seminars, held in collaboration with the Italian Department.Alessandra Montalbano (Scuola Normale Superiore di Pisa)Combating Ransom Kidnapping in Modern Italy:
Magistrates, Memoirs, Media Thursday 23 October 2014,3pm - 6pmUCL Chandler House, 2 Wakefield Street, London, WC1N 1PF, Room 118Lampedusa: Migratory Space, Memory and Aesthetics  Luca Baldoni (James Madison University) and Flaviano Pisanelli (Montpellier III - Paul Valéry)Poesia e omosessualità nel Novecento italiano Jessica Goethals (Villa I Tatti, Harvard University)From the Grotesque to the Galilean: Margherita
Costa and the Spectacle of Baroque Female DramaturgyLucia Rinaldi (UCL)The Many Lives of Inspector MontalbanoItalian Merchants Abroad and the Use of Foreign Languages, 14th-16th CenturiesFrancesco Guidi-Bruscoli (University of Florence)Il fantastico femminile: una questione di genereBeatrice Manetti (University of Turin)Traumi e vittime: introduzione alla narrativa italiana contemporaneaDaniele Giglioli (University of Bergamo) in conversation with Stefano JossaIn collaboration with Royal HollowayIl "New Italian Realism": genesi, caratteri, dibattito (2008-2013)  Davide Luglio
(Université Paris-Sorbonne)L'ermetismo: una generazione Anna Dolfi (University of
Florence)"Porte aperte": la mafia, il fascismo e la polizia negli anni TrentaManoela PattiCentre Stage Series: Rehearsing TranslationChaired by Eva Daníčková (Dramaturgs’ Network)Centre Stage Series: Commedia dell’Arte: From Street to Salon Oliver Crick (Artistic Director of The Fabulous
Old Spot Theatre Company)Chaired
by Chris Stamatakis (UCL)Centre Stage Series: Not Pierrot, More Pirandello! Facilitated by Charlotte CoxChaired
by Enza De Francisci (UCL)Centre Stage Series: Homage to Franca Rame: Actress, Writer, ActivistLed by Joseph Farrell (University of
Strathclyde)Chaired
by Marta Niccolai (UCL)Silvano Montaldo (University of Turin)Many
 Western museums in recent decades have had to deal with the question of
 the return of human remains (ancestral bones, heads and body parts) 
contained in their collections. This talk reconstructs the court case 
and media coverage surrounding the skull of Giuseppe Villella, displayed
 in the Lombroso Museum of the University of Turin. Villella was a petty
 thief, imprisoned in Pavia where he died, but his skull became famous 
in the scientific community due to its connection to Lombroso’s 
criminological theory. It was by studying this particular skull, in 
1870, that Lombroso first thought he identified the signs of a 
particular conformation of the brain that caused criminal behaviour. 
That moment of ‘discovery’ was the start not only of a criminological 
theory, but of one of the first hypothesis about the relationship 
between behaviour and biology. A controversial court case, triggered by 
Italian politicians eager to label the Museum as racist, now threatens 
the continued presence of the skull in the museum. This talk highlights 
the value of this specimen for the history of science, the positions of 
the main protagonists of the skull controversy and the risks that 
historical revisionism poses to the future of cultural heritage.Giuseppe Sangirardi (Université de Bourgogne)From
 Romantic idealism to postmodernism, from Hegel to Calvino, irony has 
always been seen as the key for interpreting Ludovico Ariosto’s Orlando 
furioso and has functioned as the base of a literary paradigm that 
supposedly allows for a comprehensive understanding of the multiple 
layers of meaning of this Renaissance masterpiece. However, despite – or
 perhaps thanks to – its success, this idea is not guileless. In fact, 
there are different kinds of irony in the Furioso, not only because 
Ariosto’s models for irony were various, but also because many have been
 the critical perspectives from which this idea has been elaborated on. 
Combining reception theory and textual philology, this talk outlines the
 critical panorama of Ariosto’s irony and illustrates some of its most 
unusual landscapes.Please note: this talk will be in Italian.Chaired by Professor Marina Warner and performed by Marco GambinoThe School of Sons is
 a desperate and profoundly human soliloquy, of Stefano Pirandello, the 
eldest son of Luigi Pirandello. Through these words, spoken by a son, 
his father’s total victim, we catch the most subtle intimacies of a 
family, so deeply tragic in character as to become paradoxically 
umoristico – as well as all the disgust and nausea of a son who was 
plagiarised and mocked. Luigi Pirandello’s love for his children was so 
unhealthy that they seemed to him creatures in every way like the 
characters of his plays: uncertain figures whom he loathed and 
ridiculed, as he probably also did himself. We only have to read a few 
lines by Stefano Pirandello (he was also a playwright who modestly 
called himself Landi) to understand the suffering and self-abasement of 
this man. ‘Death is not possible for me.  Nor is birth.  Truly, we’re 
here, as if we were forever born, as if we were forever alive’.In
 the working-class areas of Naples, private ceremonies are a thriving 
business. This is one of the few areas in the world where the stars are 
not the internationally-renowned ones promoted by MTV but are home-grown
 singers. At wedding parties, which may last over twelve hours, the 
performers enthral relatives and friends of the hosts throughout a 
gargantuan banquet. Weddings, first communions, christenings, birthdays 
and neighbourhood celebrations form the background to Le Coccinelleshows that entertain an audience consumed with curiosity. Children are entranced and the women are moved by the show of Le Coccinelle.
 The ties that bind the women with the Neapolitan transsexuals are 
ancient and deep and except for ceremonies, only women are allowed to 
watch their performances. In restaurant dining rooms decked out in fake 
Baroque style, Le Coccinelle sing and perform their acts. They 
tell stories of prostitution, of the judgement by Naples’s upper class, 
of the hypocrisy of their clients; but they also recount their 
friendships with the women of the back streets and the Neapolitans’ 
joyous way of life.The director Emanuela Pirelli 
is a young photographer and filmmaker from Naples. She graduated at the 
Rome’s Institute of Photography and Communication and did photo 
reportage work for magazines and agencies in Naples, Rome, Milan, 
Amsterdam and Berlin. In 2002 she attended the Documentary School by 
Doc/it and Zelig. Since then she has worked as camera operator and 
assistant director for documentaries, news and TV formats for both 
Italian and foreign productions. She directed behind the scenes, arts 
films and filmed for several documentaries such as Winners and Losers 
(2007) by Lech Kowalsky.The film (in Italian 
with English subtitles) will be introduced by Nicola G. Ibba and will be
 followed by a Q&A with the director. When it comes to freedom of the press, Italy ranks 57th in the
world according to Reporters sans Frontières. Yet Italian citizens have access
to many respected national newspapers, seven TV channels, a lively scene of
information websites, a multiplicity of newswires and radios, and, possibly,
more political talk shows than most other countries. How can such a situation be
considered as being only ‘partly free’? With a media tycoon having run the
country for the majority of the last 20 years, Italian journalism has seen its
reputation dragged through the mire. Will it be restored now that Berlusconi’s
power is declining? How is the country’s media landscape coping with the
ongoing hard economic crisis? Tracing an history of journalism it Italy and
analysing the way reporters currently operate, the two speakers will try to
give an answer to these questions.John Lloyd
 is a
Contributing Editor for the Financial
Times, Director of Journalism at the Reuters Institute for the Study of
Journalism, and a columnist for La
Repubblica of Rome. At the Financial Times, he has been
Labour Editor, Industrial Editor, East European Editor and Moscow Bureau
 Chief.
In 2003 he launched the FT
Magazinewhich he edited until 2005. He is chairman of the Advisory Board
 of
the Moscow School of Civic Enlightenment. John Lloyd has won awards as 
Journalist of the Year,Specialist
Writer of the Year and the David Watt Prize. He has been
editor of The New Statesman in the 1980s and of Time Out in the 1970s. 
He has worked for Weekend World, the London Programme (LWT) and for 
Independent Radio News.
His books include Eserciti di
carta, an insightful analysis of journalism in Italy written with
Ferdinando Giugliano. Cristina Marconi is an
Italian freelance journalist and former fellow at the Reuters Institute for the
Study of Journalism in Oxford. She spent six years in Brussels as a correspondent
for Italian media and, before that, she worked in Rome as a financial reporter
for a newswire. A graduate in Philosophy at the Scuola Normale Superiore in
Pisa, she is currently based in London and is working on two projects on the
European Union: a research on the press coverage of the debt crisis and a
documentary about the future of the EU.In conversation with Dr Emanuela Tandello (University of
Oxford)From August to November 2013, the National Theatre staged
Pirandello’s Liolà in a new version by Tanya Ronder, directed by Richard Eyre.
The lead actor, Rory Keenan, will discuss how it felt to perform Liolà,
offering an ‘inside’ view of this new staging which combines the Irish world of
the actors with the Sicilian world of the characters. The session will be
concluded with a reading by the actor of an extract from Pirandello’s work.Andrea Del Corno (London Library)This talk addresses Italian political journalism in London during the years 1840-1859, primarily focusing on four journals (Apostolato Popolare, Il Pellegrino, L’Educatore and Pensiero ed Azione) run
 by Giuseppe Mazzini (1805-1872), the Italian activist whose advocacy 
for national independence and democracy was inspirational for the 1861 
Unification of Italy.  Circumstances surrounding the printing and 
circulation of these journals have not yet been fully investigated. 
 This talk scrutinises their dissemination and political significance 
within the diffusion of Italian and, more widely, foreign-language 
printed materials in Victorian London.  Prominent attention is given to a
 rare, if not unique, print-run of Il Pellegrino, of which, until
 recently, no copies were known to be extant.  Mazzini’s political 
journals represent an outstanding and prime example of Italian exile 
culture and foreign-language publication in nineteenth-century London.Luca VulloAn
 invigorating and informative journey through the art of gesticulation, 
led by film director, Luca Vullo. The director will introduce his 
docu-film, La voce del corpo, and offer a behind-the-scenes discussion 
on his innovative work following the 60-minute screening. A unique 
opportunity to learn how to gesticulate and ‘speak’ Italian through the 
particular code of body language.Marco GambinoTalkingestures
 is a pilot to a larger project on body language. The expressive 
Sicilians have stereotypically been characterized a population which 
relies heavily on gesticulation. To exemplify the importance of 
gestures, the actor, Marco Gambino, with the support of film director, 
Luca Vullo, will present two versions of the same monologue. The first 
will see the actor perform the monologue through mime, alongside a video
 and musical support. In the second, Gambino will present the same 
monologue this time including the ‘missing’ words, and, in comparing the
 two different ways of communicating, will strengthen the value of 
talkingestures.Annamaria Giusti (Opificio delle Pietre Dure, Florence)This lecture illustrated the various aspects and phases of the restoration of Lorenzo
Ghiberti’s Gates of Paradise, the Florentine Renaissance masterpiece
constructed between 1425 and 1452 that once adorned the east entrance to the
Baptistery in Florence. A monumental set of gilded bronze doors standing at
just over five metres tall and containing scenes from the Old Testament, the
Gates of Paradise were in poor shape after more than five centuries, blackened
by wind, weather, and pollution – not to mention the catastrophic flooding of
Florence in 1966. The damage was caused by excessive humidity which allowed
salts to crystallise on the bronze and corrode small holes in the surface.
Removed in 1990, when replicas were installed on the Baptistery’s hinges, the
sculpted doors underwent a long period of restoration (more than two decades),
in which a nitrogen atmosphere was used to protect them. Today, installed in
their own room at the Museo dell’Opera del Duomo in Florence, the Gates of
Paradise are back on display in a protective case that guarantees a constant
level of humidity at 20% and filters the air in the casing, removing dust and
harmful gases.Annamaria Giusti is the
Director of the Opificio delle Pietre Dure, one of the foremost conservation
institutes in the world, and directed the conservation work that restored the
Gates of Paradise to their former glory.Chaired by: Beatrice SicaMahnaz Yousefzadeh (New York University)The
 city of Florence inaugurated her newly built galley system in 1422, 
sending two ambassadors to Cairo to visit the Mamluk Sultan Barsbay. 
This lecture offered a close reading of the diary of one ambassador, 
Felice Brancacci, a prominent Florentine silk merchant and the patron of
 Masaccio’s iconic frescoes in the Brancacci Chapel of the Church of 
Santa Maria del Carmine in Florence.  The diary opened the way for an 
investigation into 15th-century cultural encounters in the 
Mediterranean, disclosing the nature of the relationship between Muslim 
and Christian capital cities. The examination of the chronicle revealed 
the ways in which Felice’s personal experiences as merchant, ambassador,
 visitor, and Christian guest in Egypt led not only to patronage, but 
also yielded the actual themes and iconography of Masaccio’s iconic 
fresco, “Tribute Money,” which was commissioned immediately upon 
Brancacci’s return from Egypt.  The lecture’s analysis of Brancacci’s 
cross-cultural maritime experience hence provideed important insights 
into the meaning of Masaccio’s enigmatic work.Chaired by: Beatrice SicaGraziella Parati (Dartmouth College)Igiaba
 Scego’s attempt to remap Rome according to a familial memory of Somalia
 sets up an interesting framework in spatial thinking that defines an 
“other’s” approach to urban space.This event was in collaboration with the UCL Centre for Intercultural StudiesChaired by: Federica MazzaraKenneth P Clarke (University of York)With its highly complex moral landscape, the Decameron is an unusual source for Renaissance wedding chests or cassoni, which usually emphasize female virtues and obedience. Indeed, the iconography of these cassoni was mostly drawn from Latin sources such as works by Plutarch or Suetonius and the Decameron was much less frequently deployed. This talk examined some of the surviving cassoni depicting scenes from the Decameron. It looked in particular at Griselda (Dec X 10) and Zinevra (Dec II 9), in two sets of highly unusual cassoni, exploring the ways in which these women are represented and how their virtue is reinterpreted and repackaged for its audience.This
 seminar formed part of a series of medieval Italian events planned at 
UCL that year, in connection with current research projects and with the
 2013 Boccaccio Septcentenary.Chaired by: Catherine KeenAs a student at the Slade School of Fine Art Lorenza Mazzetti made her first film K based on Kafka’s Metamorphosis,
 featuring fellow student Michael Andrews as Gregor Samsa. With support 
from the Slade Professor William Coldstream and the director of the BFI,
 Denis Forman, Mazzetti was financed by the BFI Experimental Film Fund 
to make Together, with Eduardo Paolozzi and Michael Andrews as deaf-mute dockworkers in London’s bomb-damaged East End. Together
 was shown at the first Free Cinema event at the NFT in 1956.  With its 
credo of subjectivity, poetic freedom and the elevation of the everyday,
 Free Cinema brought Mazzetti into contact with figures such as Lindsay 
Anderson, Karel Reisz, Tony Richardson, Walter Lassally and John 
Fletcher. In its pronounced rejection of theatrical cinematic 
conventions, Free Cinema’s relationship with Italian neorealism, radical
 British documentary and ‘Kitchen Sink’ drama, situates it at a 
contested but fascinating point within post–war British culture. As an 
Italian woman in a predominantly male domain, working at the cusp of the
 profound social and cultural shifts later associated with the 1960’s, 
Mazzetti offers unique insights into the creative and intellectual 
ambitions of the Free Cinema Movement in Britain.Mazzetti returned to Italy in 1956 where she made documentary films and wrote two novels. Her 1961 novel Il Cielo Cade
 (The Sky Falls,) based on her traumatic childhood wartime experiences, 
was made into the 2000 film directed by Andrea and Antonio Frazzi, 
starring Isabella Rossellini. She worked collaboratively for many years 
in puppet theatre and continues to paint prolifically. London Diaries
 – Mazzetti’s account of her time in England will be published by 
Sellario in Italy later this year. She lives and works in Rome.Chaired by: Cristina MassaccesiAlessandra Cerreti (Direzione Distrettuale Antimafia, Reggio Calabria)Alessandra
 Cerreti fa parte della Direzione Distrettuale Antimafia di Reggio 
Calabria, dove si occupa della ’ndrangheta. È titolare di procedimenti 
che hanno condotto a centinaia di arresti di appartenenti a questa 
organizzazione mafiosa e alla cattura di pericolosi latitanti. Ha 
chiesto e ottenuto il sequestro dei beni di componenti o prestanomi 
delle cosche mafiose per un totale di 220 milioni di Euro. Ha, infine, 
ottenuto e gestito la prima collaborazione con la giustizia di una donna
 di ’ndrangheta, Giuseppina Pesce.Chaired by: John DickieSarah Dunant and Professor Lisa JardineSarah
 Dunant and Professor Lisa Jardine discussed the extent to which 
historical fiction has, over the last twenty
years, become an ambassador for academic historical writing. This 
discussion considered the publication of Sarah Dunant's novel set in
Renaissance Italy and centred on the Borgia, Blood and Beauty.Sarah Dunant is the international bestselling author of
the novels The Birth of Venus, In the Company of the Courtesan and Sacred
Hearts, all set in Renaissance Italy. Sarah Dunant is also a broadcaster and
critic. She was a founding vice patron of the Orange Prize for women's fiction
and sits on the editorial board of the Royal Academy magazine.Lisa Jardine CBE is Professor of Renaissance Studies at
University College London. Professor Jardine is Director of the Centre for
Humanities Interdisciplinary Research Projects and Director of the Centre for
Editing Lives and Letters. She is a fellow of the Royal Historical Society and
an Honorary Fellow of King's College, Cambridge and Jesus College, Cambridge.
She has published extensively on the Renaissance including works on Bacon,
Shakespeare and Erasmus.Chaired by: Timothy DemetrisJeffrey Schnapp (Harvard University)Guido Mazzoni (University of Siena)Between the middle of the sixteenth century and the end of the
eighteenth, the method of representing social and moral life in European novels
changed completely. While in the last two centuries the novel has become the
genre in which any kind of story can be narrated in any manner, until the
second half of the eighteenth century the representation of reality in novels
had to follow strict rules that were implicitly assumed by both readers and
writers. Such were, for example, the Platonic-Christian obligation to moralize
stories and heroes, showing the vices punished and the virtues rewarded, and
the rule of differentiating writing styles according to the social classes that
were represented. What we call today "modern novel" stems precisely
from overcoming these rules and asuumptions. The genre born from that
metamorphosis brough a new vision of the world.John Foot (UCL)This lecture will look at the origins of radical psychiatry in Italy, a
movement which took control of asylums in order to close them down, and which
began in Gorizia, on the border with Yugoslavia, in 1961. The talk will discuss
how a small group of psychiatrists were able to link up with the ideas and
movements of 1968, and how this movement has been analysed and mythologised in
subsequent years.Simone Brioni (University of Warwick)Who are you? In an attempt to give an answer to this apparently simple
question, Ribka Sibhatu, Italian writer and essayist of Eritrean origin,
presents the history of her homeland in her current city, Rome. In her
imaginary trip backwards through her memories, she is accompanied by a young
Italian man, who shares her same interest in exploring the relationship between
identity and territory. Ribka’s own personal story intersects powerfully with
the stories of the Eritrean diaspora, which not only does it show the fault
traces that colonialism has left behind in her country, but also demonstrates
how the perception of immigration in Italy has been profoundly influenced by an
apparent failure in the process of decolonization in Italian collective memory.
Aulò brings into question the concept of confine, not only in geographical, but
also in cultural and identitarian terms.Robert Gordon (University of Cambridge)in conversation with the author, presents:Opened in 1870, Le Nuove was one of Italy’s first
panoptical prisons. During the Second World War it was occupied by the Nazis,
who executed and deported anti-Fascist and Jewish prisoners held there. In the
1970s it housed left-wing ‘terrorists,’ who spearheaded violent riots that
spread to prisons across Italy and intimidated and assassinated prison staff.
When Le Nuove finally closed down in October 2003, the
memories of the tragic events that occurred there became obstacles to its
demolition. This book examines the cultural memory of Le Nuove via
oral history, archival research and the material traces left within the
building itself to discuss memory, heritage and the legacy of political
violence in contemporary Italy.Discutono: Stefano Jossa (Royal Holloway) e Gabriele Pedullà (Universita' degli Studi di Roma Tre).Si dice spesso che la letteratura è un viaggio, nello spazio come nel tempo. Ma fino ad ora, nessuno aveva mai provato a scriverne la storia con gli strumenti del viaggiatore (di ieri o di oggi): la carta geografica, la guida artistica, la mappa topografica, se non proprio il navigatore satellitare. In questa nuova «Grande Opera» – frutto del lavoro di quasi duecento specialisti provenienti dal mondo intero – la storia della letteratura italiana viene raccontata per la prima volta alla maniera di Albert Einstein: come un vertiginoso viaggio nello spaziotempo. Ci sono i grandi personaggi della nostra letteratura, ritratti, quasi fosse una fotografia «istantanea», in un momento decisivo della loro vita. Ci sono i libri fondamentali della nostra civiltà letteraria, restituiti alla ricchezza (e alla complessità) dell’epoca storica in cui vennero prodotti. E ci sono – riconoscibili come mai prima d’ora – i luoghi di un’Italia letteraria che si estende ben oltre i limiti dello stivale: le città e le strade, gli edifici e le case, i panorami e i paesaggi, negli otto secoli che separano il 1200 dal Duemila. Lunghi intrecci e brevi istanti di svolta. Una mappa della fantasia italiana.Chair: Robert Lumley (UCL)Marco Assennato was born in Palermo in 1978. He has lived in Paris since 2009. He graduated in philosophy, with a thesis on Spinoza. His main field of research is the relationship between politics and architecture. He is currently doing a PhD at ENSA, Paris-Malaquais, working on a research project on Manfredo Tafuri.International Conference with the support of the UCL School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS) and the UCL Faculty Institute of Graduate Studies (FIGS)Organizers:  Florian Mussgnug (UCL) and  Emanuela Patti (UCL)Confirmed Speakers:Emanuela Patti (UCL, Cagliari): Remediating collective identities, narratives and myths in literature in the new media contextJakob Stoutgaard–Nielsen (UCL) Authorship in the digital eraClaudia Boscolo (Royal Holloway) Transmedia storytelling and contemporary Italian Fiction: An Overview Tommaso Pincio (writer and artist, Rome)Cristina Massaccesi (UCL) Transmedial Contamination in Italian Graphic NarrativesOtto Gabos (Graphic Novelist)Federica Chiocchetti (UCL)  Literature and photography countering the mimetic: a theoretical exploration.Daniele Salerno (University of Bologna)On June 27th 1980, an aircraft en route from Bologna to Palermo plunged into the Tyrrhenian Sea off the island of Ustica, near Sicily. Eighty-one people died. From 1984 to 1999, three different judges investigated the case. According to the most recent sentence, the aircraft was probably shot down by a missile, launched by a warplane belonging to an unknown NATO country.The main aim of this research (in progress) is to analyse the shaping of the public memory of this event, which found its pivotal moment in the construction of the Museum for the Memory of Ustica in Bologna. I argue that this process can be divided in three periods: the period of latency (1980-1986); the period of recognition of the massacre (1990s to early 2000s); and the years of conflicting memories (which lasts up to the present and is ongoing). These conflicts link up to a dual and interconnected tendency in the shaping of the Italian public memory of those years (the so called ‘Years of Lead’): the inability of State institutions to create an acceptable collective version of this event, and the victims’ narratives which have been pivotal in legitimising different versions of the past.Filippo La Porta (Rome) Filippo La Porta is a one of Italy’s leading literary critics. He regularly writes for Corriere della sera, Il Messaggero, and Sole24Ore. Recent publications include Maestri irregolari (2007, winner of the Premio De Lollis); Dizionario della critica militante (2007, with Giuseppe Leonelli), Uno sguardo sulla città (2010) and Meno letteratura, per favore (2010).Timothy Demetris (UCL) In the summer of 1472 Pope Sixtus IV launched a naval campaign against the Turks with Cardinal Oliviero Carafa as commander of the papal fleet. This military enterprise has received little attention from scholars. My paper will consider how it may not only inform us of Sixtus IV's early policy regarding the Turks but also provide context for his later engagement with Mehmed II's forces during the capture and liberation of Otranto in 1480-1481. I shall present a historical account of Cardinal Carafa's campaign using both modern and contemporary sources. I shall then examine the lives of those individuals involved and present the known portraits we have of them and visual representations of the campaign itself.Margaret Rose (University of Milan)Prof. Maggie Rose teaches British Theatre Studies at Milan State University. A writer, translator and dramaturge, she spends part of the year in the UK for her writing and research. She is a member of Playwrights Studio Scotland and the Scottish Association of Playwrights. Her stage and radio plays, reflecting her interest in issues of migration and multiculturalism as well as reworkings of Shakespeare, have been produced in the UK and Italy. Her stage translations have been performed in the UK, America and Italy. With Salvatore Cabras, she has co-translated Edward Bond’s Warplays, directed by Luca Ronconi and Alan Bennett’s The History Plays directed by Elio de Capitani e F.Bruni. Alice, an adaptation of Alice in Wonderland ran at Milan’s Piccolo Teatro in 2009 and 2010. She has co-created and co-directed festival-symposiums such as Scotsfest, Scambiare and Scottish Italian Connections and Identities. In her lecture, she will be considering various plays (Tally’s Blood, Six Months Here Six Months There, Shattered Head), documentaries (Dangerous Characters) and autobiographies, dealing with a crucial moment in history: June 1940, when Benito Mussolini declared war on Great Britain and France, and when many Italians living in the UK suddenly found themselves labelled as “enemy aliens”.Suzanne Stewart-Steinberg (Brown University) Prof. Stewart-Steinberg’s widely acclaimed study of modern Italian identity in the post-Unification period, The Pinocchio Effect: On Making Italians, 1860-1930(University of Chicago Press, 2007) was awarded the Aldo and Jeanne Scaglione Prize for Best Manuscript in Italian Studies by the Modern Language Association. This event was hosted jointly with the IHR Modern Italian History Seminar.Chiara Caprì, one of the founders of the Sicilian anti-extortion organizationAddiopizzo, will speak about her new book on Libero Grassi, the Palermo entrepreneur murdered for refusing to pay protection money.Enza de Francisci (UCL)This seminar compares Verga’s and Pirandello’s method of transposing a selection of short stories to the stage; questioning what happens when authorial intervention is withdrawn and the two writers rely on dialogue and assessing how the modifications introduced to the theatrical versions affect the portrayal of women. It will be suggested that although the female protagonists take a subsidiary position in the triangular relationship they are involved in, they nevertheless dominate both narrative and dramatic plots.Silvia Sfligiotti (Alizarina Studio – Milan)Annelys de Vet (Sandberg Institute Amsterdam)Annelies Vaneycken (Trans-ID Brussels)The seminar will feature a presentation by Silvia Sfligiotti of Alizarina Studio Milan on the role of the user in the design process – should designers work with, for or against the users? Annelys de Vet of the Sandberg Institute Amsterdam and Annelies Vaneycken of Trans-ID Brussels will also present on their recent works, in which visual communication is used as a tool to chart and highlight tensions and cleavages in culture and society. The seminar will end with an open round table discussion with the participation of Ken Garland and Richard Hollis.Elettra Carbone (UCL)For many Norwegians the Italian Risorgimento was seen as an inspiration, a symbol of freedom. Besides being a topical subject, especially in newspapers and magazines, the Risorgimento struggle was represented in literary works by famous Norwegian authors. How was this period of the Italian history represented before and after Norway’s independence in 1905?Simone Brioni (Warwick)The director and the writer Kaha Mohamed Aden will be present.Synopsis: Kaha Mohamed Aden narrates her memories of Mogadishu, her birth city, and reconstruct its story in Pavia, where she currently lives. The capital of Somalia is divided into five streets, which corresponds to different histoica periods. The fourth street symbolizes the actuality of civil war. This negates the preceding periods and makes it necessary to hope for the 'fifth street'. The film has English subtitles.Georgia Panteli (UCL)The seminar focuses on postmodern retellings of Pinocchio, and these include graphic  retellings as well as some examples of posthuman Pinocchios. In my talk I will explain how I connect Pinocchio to cyborgs, following the literary history of the animate/inanimate  archetype, of which Pinocchio is a vital part. I will also refer in more detail to the bande dessinée that won the Fauve d'Or prize in 2009, 'Pinocchio' by Winshluss. Maria Coduri (UCL) The aim of this seminar is to show different trends of acting and directing Shakespeare's plays in Italy from the performances of the "great actors" of mid-nineteenth century to the first stagings of the "teatro di regia" (director's theatre).Sebastiano Caroni (UCL) The aim of the presentation is threefold. Firstly, to situate Eco's relationship with structuralist method and approach as a formative moment in Eco's intellectual trajectory. Secondly, the presentation discusses Eco's ideas of interpretation against the background of Eco's critique of structuralism. Thirdly, it shows how Eco's ideas of interpretation can be the starting point to explore the intellectual norms and practices that sustain the ethic of academic work.Presented by author Yosefa Loshitzky (East London University)Yosefa Loshitzky challenges the utopian notion of a post-national "New Europe" by focusing on the waves of migrants and refugees that some view as a potential threat to European identity, a concern heightened by the rhetoric of the war on terror, the London Underground bombings, and the riots in Paris's banlieues. Opening a cinematic window onto this struggle, Loshitzky determines patterns in the representation and negotiation of European identity in several European films from the late 20th and early 21st centuries, including Bernardo Bertolucci's Besieged, Stephen Frears’s Dirty Pretty Things, Mathieu Kassovitz's La Haine, and Michael Winterbottom's In This World, Code 46, and The Road to Guantanamo.Fabio Camilletti (University of Warwick)The seminar will explore some of the methodological challenges emerged in the course of my research on the nineteenth-century metamorphoses of Dante’s Vita Nova. More specifically, by focusing on some re-elaborations of the episode of the 'woman at the window' – whose ambiguities make of it a veritable crux in Dantean philology - I will show how it is used as a frame in which the tensions of nineteenth-century desire are articulated.Evelyn Ferraro (Brown University)Migrants’ complex identities defy any rigid cultural classifications because of the liminal, or in-between, positions that migrant subjects inhabit. In this seminar, the spatial concept of being on the threshold will primarily be adopted to discuss contemporary literary and visual representations of the Italian migratory experience to North America vis-à-vis Italian national identity. In addition, the threshold will provide a theoretical tool to launch a preliminary reflection on Italy’s own liminality within the Mediterranean.Chris Adams (Estorick Collection of Modern Italian Art)Unlike Fauvism or Cubism, Futurism was not simply a painterly technique but a way of life. This paper considers if its holistic ambition was a distinctively Italian phenomenon - the movement emerging in the home of a world religion and the birthplace of modern totalitarianism - and if Futurism's continuation in the post-war period was motivated as much by the desire to counter a newfound cultural ‘agnosticism’ as by any aesthetic differences.Paolo Favero (Lisbon University Institute)Moving among historical material and contemporary debates on xenophobia and war, his seminar will explore the self-representation "Italiani Brava Gente", an image claiming the intrinsic goodness of the Italian people. Functioning as an ideological laundry for reformulating and then setting aside disquieting moments of national shame, "Italiani Brava gente" is central to the construction of  a modern Italian identity.Giuseppe A. Camerino (Università del Salento)Ampio panorama della caratteristiche dei maggiori scrittori triestini e giuliani tra l'Otto e il Novecento, tra attrazione della cultura viennese e austroungarica e richiamo della letteratura italiani nelo stesso periodo. Un'analisi che tocca i modi molto diversi e pur complementari con cui autori come Svevo, Saba, Slataper e Michelstaedter afrontano una complessa e irripetibile condizione di frontiera con tutti i connessi problemi linguistici, religiosi, filosofici e culturali in genere che una realtà del genere, per certi vesi altamente cosmopolita, richiedeva.Benedetta Tobagi (UCL) presentas her book: "Come mi batte forte il tuo cuore"Benedetta Tobagi presents her book dedicated to her father, Walter Tobagi, a "Corriere della Sera" journalist, murdered by leftist extremists in 1980.A film by Nick Mai (London Metropolitan University)followed by a discussion with the directorNORMAL is made of the combined interviews with four migrants (2 men, 2 women) working in the global sex industry, as agents and workers, respectively. The four characters explain how they came to see their involvement in the sex industry as NORMAL and how their notion of normality evolved with their life experiences. The film lasts 37 minutes.The actors were present.Federico Faloppa (University of Reading)Statistics say that Italy has become a multi-ethnic and multi-cultural contry. But the representation of migrants and ethnic groups in the Italian press has not changed much in the last 20 years, and derogatory labels and misreprsentations are far from being a relic of the past. Through the analysis of examples taken from newspapers and magazines, the paper will try to highlght a few linguistic elements - from lexicon to rhetoric - which seem to be part of an enduring strategy to construct and isolate 'otherness' linguistically. Laura Pariani (UCL)“Milano è una selva oscura”: La scrittura di Laura Pariani tra Dante e la tradizione lombarda.Fabio Cuzzola (Historian and Screenwriter) in conversation with John Dickie (UCL)Luciano Segreto (University of Florence)Giuliana Pieri (Royal Holloway University)David Forgacs (UCL)Ian Thomson (Royal Literary Fund Fellow, UCL)Guido Bonsaver (Oxford)Paola Nasti (University of Reading)“Narratives of Desire: biblical paradigms and vernacular actualizations”Heather Webb (Ohio State / CRASSH) “Dante's Cardiocentrism”Salvatore Lupo (University of Palermo) in conversation with John Dickie (UCL)Matteo Colombi (Leipzig) “Trieste: Everybody’s Colony?”Katia Pizzi (IGRS) “Trieste: A Dissident Port”Andrea Villarini (University of Siena)Sorry, this Silva Document is not viewable.  Research SeminarsSchool of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)UCL attends various events in the UK and overseas to help you make an informed choice about pursuing further study.Around 25% of UCL's undergraduate students spend a period of time studying abroad.Read more about study abroadLearn about UCL's proud history and how it's a world-leading multi-disciplinary university based in the heart of London.
                    
                    
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 As one of the world’s top universities, UCL
excels across the humanities and social sciences sciences. SELCS has
an outstanding reputation for its teaching and research, with students taught
by and researching alongside world-class academics.  Home to the UK’s first professors in Spanish,
French, German, Italian and Dutch, SELCS brings together eleven languages, many
different disciplines and a global approach to understanding languages and
culture from the medieval period to the present.  SELCS offers students valuable skills for
employment at a time when language skills are strongly sought after by employers. These include the
ability to speak, understand and write in a foreign language, intercultural
understanding, translation and communication skills, and analytical rigour. Find out more about our Undergraduate Programmes, including details on applications and our year abroad.We offer a range of inter-disciplinary Taught Masters Programmes. Find out more and apply now.Our Research covers a broad range of topics, including  cultural history, digital humanities, film, and gender.Affiliate students are able to choose from a range of courses covering literature, linguistics, history, sociology, philosophy, art, film and other aspects of the cultures associated with the languages taught in SELCS.SELCS offers some scholarships and bursaries to students for specific areas of study. Students can also apply for funding through UCL centrally, and via external bodies. The admissions process differs depending on your chosen level of study. Find out more about these processes and how you can express your interest to study with UCL. Modern Languages graduates are highly valued by employers for their linguistic and cultural knowledge, and for their set of 
transferable skills. Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 Depending on your chosen level of study, you will need to
follow one of the following pathways in order to submit an application 
to study with us. Applications for Undergraduate Programmes should be made through UCAS
 (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants 
currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the 
process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based 
outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS. Please ensure you’ve read the guidelines and entry requirements for 
the Programme you wish to apply for before submitting your application. 
You can return to the Undergraduate Programme page, if you wish to revisit the Programme overview and entry requirements.If you have any questions about applying for any of the undergraduate courses in the School of European Languages, Culture and Society please do get in touch with Jo Wolff, Admissions Officer.
 

   Apply for Undergraduate Study

 
 If you are applying for Graduate Taught or Graduate Research 
Programmes, you will submit your application directly to the central 
admissions team at UCL. Please ensure you have read the Programme 
guidelines and entry requirements before submitting your application. 
You can return to the Graduate Taught page if you wish to revisit the Programme overviews and entry requirements. Formal applications for Graduate Research Programmes are made via the
 central UCL admissions pages but you are advised to contact us with specific questions before making an application. For questions on research opportunities, please contact Professor Mairead Hanrahan, SELCS Research Director or Jo Wolff, Admissions Officer.
 

   Apply for Graduate Study

 
Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				SELCS welcomes students from colleges and universities around the world who wish to gain credit for modules (courses) taken at UCL in order to graduate from their home universities.Students from abroad who spend a period of study at UCL via an Erasmus+, Exchange or Junior Year Abroad (JYA) scheme, or following an independent application, are classed as 'Affiliate Students'. As an Affiliate student you will: •   Study alongside UCL and international students,
benefiting from UCL's world-class teaching system and renowned academics.•   Have the flexibility to take modules across a range of
UCL subjects and departments, tailoring your module to your own particular
interests in this area.•   Have access to your academic Personal Tutor (known as an
‘Affiliate Tutor’).•   Be encouraged to integrate into UCL student life, with
access to events, societies and clubs both within SELCS and across
UCL.•   Benefit from the prime London location and resources through the surrounding libraries, museums and institutes.The School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) is a UCL department comprising six language sub-departments: Dutch, French, German, Italian, Scandinavian Studies and Spanish, Portuguese & Latin American Studies. Affiliate students are able to choose from a range of modules covering literature, linguistics, history, sociology, philosophy, art, film and other aspects of the cultures associated with the languages taught in SELCS.While at UCL, Affiliates follow a programme of study to the same credit level as regular UCL students. This comprises 60 ECTS (32 US credits) in an academic session or 30 ECTS (16 US credits) if you are here only for semester 1 (term 1) or only for semester 2 (both term 2 and term 3 respectively).You may well find that during your studies at UCL you are expected to undertake significantly more individual and independent study outside of classes than you are used to. As a result, you may also have fewer classes per week than at your home institution. Attendance on all classes at UCL is compulsory.In SELCS we admit students in both September and January in three different categories:•   SELCS as first or only named home department:You must take 50% of your modules in SELCS. The other 50% may be taken in SELCS or in other UCL departments, subject to space and prerequisites. It is important to note that SELCS does not manage module registration outside of this department and cannot guarantee places in other UCL departments.•   SELCS as second named home department :You must take 50% of your modules in your first named department at UCL, and 25% within SELCS. The remaining 25% may be taken in other UCL departments (including SELCS and your first named department), subject to space and prerequisites, and any local regulations of your first named department.•   Affiliate students from other UCL departments:We welcome students from a wide variety of departments and disciplines across UCL to SELCS modules, subject to space and prerequisites. More information on our module registration process for non-SELCS students and relevant contact details can be found here.If you are looking to apply as an Erasmus or Exchange student, please check your university has an appropriate agreement in place with UCL SELCS. Before students apply, partner universities should submit their nominations to SELCS Study Abroad Officer via selcs.studyabroad@ucl.ac.uk.Applications should be e-mailed to the central UCL Admissions Office, via affiliatestudents@ucl.ac.uk. To check your application status or ask questions about the process (including visa queries), please e-mail the Admissions Office or call +44 (0) 20 3108 4400.We look forward to welcoming you at SELCS! 
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				MA students from Ecole Normale Supérieure (ENS) de Lyon in France and from Scuola Normale Superiore (SNS) di Pisa in Italy are welcome to study in SELCS via Erasmus+.All SELCS Affiliates take a minimum of 50% of their programme of study within SELCS. They may take the remaining 50% in any UCL department or programme, including SELCS, subject to the availability of places on modules (courses) and provided that they meet the prerequisites for modules that they wish to attend.Each UCL module has a code, which indicates which department or language sub-department runs it (e.g., SPANG***, SCANG***) and a title (e.g "Nomadic Literature"). Please note that graduate students (also called postgraduate/PG or Master/MA students) must choose graduate modules only. A combination of undergraduate and graduate modules is not permitted. Graduate modules are indicated by the 'G' following the departmental or language code, e.g. ITALG012, GERMG032. Each UCL module is assigned a weighting, measured in 'credits’. This weighting will either be 15 UCL credits or 30 UCL credits. These can be translated into ECTS as follows:•   15 UCL credits = 7.5 ECTS•   30 UCL credits = 15 ECTSFor queries relating to PG module registration in SELCS, please contact SELCS Postgraduate Officer.A full listing of available modules will be sent to accepted students. It will give you further details including summary of content, credit value, timetabling and assessment information.On arrival at UCL, students will be able to discuss their module choices with the academic and administrative staff in the departments where they intend to take modules.All module selections must be agreed with your home institution.Recommended ModulesSome Advanced ELCS modules (module codes ELCSG***) are available to graduate affiliates. Students follow the same classes as undergraduate students but in addition attend seminars run exclusively for them. They also take a different form of assessment from undergraduate students. All incoming affiliate students are expected to attend International Student Orientation Programme (ISOP), which is organised by central UCL International Student Support (ISS) team. The ISS team is dedicated to providing support to all non-UK students at UCL, including guidance on welfare and various practical matters. Please visit their website for pre-arrival advice and useful information about life in London and settling in at UCL. You may also contact the ISS team for further advice, via internationalsupport@ucl.ac.uk.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				•   Affiliate students starting in autumn are expected to arrive in London on Monday 17th September to attend International Student Orientation Programme (ISOP) which begins on 18th September in the morning.•   Affiliates starting in January are expected to arrive in London on Tuesday 2nd January to attend ISOP which will begin on 3rd January in the morning.•   Students arriving late should e-mail selcs.studyabroad@ucl.ac.uk and also refer to advice published here.To access UCL academic calendar, please click here. Please note that Orientation Programme begins 1 week before the official start of term.•   Semester 1 = autumn term (teaching and assessment) / slightly shorter than 3 months•   Semester 2 = spring term (teaching) + summer term (assessment) / 5 months in total•   SELCS Affiliates must take a minimum of 50% of their modules/credits in SELCS. They can take the remaining 50% in SELCS or in other UCL departments, subject to availability. SELCS cannot guarantee places outside of this department, therefore, students should be prepared for the possibility of taking all modules in SELCS.•   Students can take modules worth up to a maximum of 30 ECTS per semester / 16 US credits (for example, 4 modules worth 7.5 ECTS each).•   If approved by their home university, students can take a reduced number of credits (minimum 22.5 ECTS per semester).After arrival, students will be able to discuss their module choices with the SELCS Affiliates Tutor and with other academic and administrative staff in the departments where they intend to take modules, and to make changes if necessary. •   Erasmus students from partner universities in France, Italy and Spain must take the following translation module(s) for the duration of their study at SELCS (worth 7.5 ECTS per semester).•   Students who would not get any credits at their home university for their compulsory module(s) should report it to selcs.studyabroad@ucl.ac.uk before their arrival, so that they can be exempt from this requirement.• Translation into English I (FREN4005) Term 1• Translation into English II (FREN4006) Term 2These modules are also available as an option to other affiliates.• English Academic Writing and Translation Skills ITAL6002 - Full Year ITAL6004 - Term 1 only ITAL6001 - Term 2 onlyThese modules are available only to Italian native speakers.• Spanish Language III / Advanced Spanish Language for Affiliates (Translation from Spanish into English) SPAN4001A - Term 1 SPAN4001B - Term 2These modules are also available as an option but only to SELCS affiliates from Latin America.•   Modules in 2017-18: Click here for a list of  modules currently available to affiliate students.•   Modules in 2018-19: A list of available SELCS modules will be available in summer 2018.Each module description should say if the module is run in term 1 or term 2. For exact teaching times, please check the UCL Common Timetable (weeks 6-10/12-16 indicate term 1 and weeks 20-24/26-30 - term 2). Please see the following document for step-by-step instructions on how to check your timetable (PDF file).Some modules (for example, ELCS*) are taught in the form of one lecture for all students and a number of small-group seminars. Students must attend all lectures and one specific seminar group to which they will be allocated after they arrive in London. Please be aware of the possibility of module clashes and that all timetables might be subject to changes.SELCS Affiliates can take up to 50% of their modules/credits in other UCL departments, subject to availability and prerequisites for modules. More information about modules offered by other UCL departments can be found on their websites or via Study Abroad Guide.To help you navigate the many differing procedures in various UCL departments to register for modules, please refer to the Affiliate Registration Procedures 2017-18 (PDF file) which also provides contact details for each department. Please carefully read and follow their instructions.Please refer to additional information for module registration in these UCL departments:•   Arts & Sciences (BASc) - PDF file•   Hebrew & Jewish Studies - PDF file•   Psychology & Language SciencesPlease be aware of the possibility of timetable clashes with your SELCS modules and that all timetables might be subject to changes.Please see this page for Erasmus documentation queries.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				•   Learning Agreements should be e-mailed to SELCS via selcs.erasmus@ucl.ac.uk. Please note this mailbox is monitored only for submission of the incoming students' Erasmus documentation. For other queries, please e-mail Ania at selcs.studyabroad@ucl.ac.uk.•   If you are already in London, please bring your completed learning agreement to SELCS office and ask for Stafano, who will sign it on behalf of Ania. Stefano's current office hours are: Mondays & Wednesdays: 8:30am-12:30pm & 2pm-3:30pm and Tuesdays: 8:30am-12:30pm.•   If your agreement was prepared by your university and
 has different information than below, please inform them about our 
correct details, so that they can amend your 
agreement before you arrive:Please bring your Arrival / Departure forms to the UCL Student Centre (click here for opening hours). UCL Student Centre starts signing Arrival forms on 25th September (or 8th January for January starters). Affiliate students may request to have their forms signed retrospectively, with the Orientation Programme start date.•   If a student already left UCL, confirmation of attendance can be requested from UCL Student Centre via studentstatus@ucl.ac.uk.Although the UCL autumn term is less than 90 days, it should still be acceptable as a full academic term for the purpose of Erasmus mobility for studies. These rules are specified by individual national agencies in each country and application of this rule seems to vary, however, please note the following document in the link below which explains that minimum duration of a study period is 3 months, or 1 academic term or trimester (please see the small print for point 25 at the bottom of page 36). The above information was passed on to all our partner universities.If students are required by their home institution to spend at least 3 months (90 days) at UCL, we recommend that they apply for semester 2 instead, which consists of term 2 and term 3 respectively and lasts 5 months (from early January to early June). We currently do not complete any Transcripts of Records (Part 5 of Erasmus Learning Agreement 'After the Mobility') because these are replaced by final UCL transcripts.•   Autumn Term Students:Information will be updated soon. •   Full Year and Spring Semester Students:Exam results are usually released on Portico (online student records system) around mid July. After that, the central UCL Registry starts producing and sending out all transcripts, which should reach your home university (Erasmus Coordinator) by the end of August. If your transcript is not received by then, it should be reported to UCL Registry via transcripts@ucl.ac.uk.If a student requires an earlier transcript for their Master application, a request must come from their home university by e-mail to selcs.studyabroad@ucl.ac.uk. We will then be able to prepare an interim, provisional confirmation of results.Any student who has failed a module during the year will be offered a second and final attempt to resit in the summer late assessment period, which will take place in late August, with the results (and final UCL transcript) processed by mid-September. Late August assessment period is the same for all students (including affiliates who studied at UCL only in autumn term).Affiliate students will have to signal their intention to resit once the results are available. Students must request permission from their home university to be able to resit. To request a resit formally, a confirmation of approval must be e-mailed by the home university to selcs.studyabroad@ucl.ac.uk. 
                                  
                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				IMPORTANT: • Modules may be subject to change.• Modules starting with codes: DUTC*, FREN*, GERM*, ITAL*, PORT*,  SCAN* and SPAN* might be subject to any module-specific prerequisites (such as language proficiency). Please check the descriptions.• Modules starting with codes: ELCS6* and LITC*, for which there are no prerequisites, are taught and assessed in English.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Students from other departments at UCL are welcome to request to take SELCS modules on the understanding that:•   They have permission from their home department at UCL to take a module within SELCS•   There is space on the module•   There are no timetable clashes with their other modules•   Students meet any prerequisites required by individual modules (please check module descriptions for more information)When allocating modules, we give priority to SELCS students and SELCS affiliates, therefore, we will aim to confirm whether you have secured your place on requested modules by the end of Induction week. We advise that you have reserve options in place in case it is not possible for us to allocate you to requested SELCS modules.If you need to request changes once teaching has started, please contact the relevant administrative staff (as listed above).To make module changes on Portico, please contact your main department.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Modern Languages graduates are highly valued by employers for their linguistic and cultural knowledge, and for their set of 
transferable skills. SELCS graduates go on to work in varied roles across the public, 
private and charitable sectors, as well as working as language consultants and teachers. Some of our recent graduates have been employed by the following organisations:SELCS students benefit from careers advice that is provided by the UCL Careers Service.
 The UCL Careers Service provide a range of services including: short or
 long 1-1 meetings to discuss career choices, reading CVs, conducting 
practice interviews or assessment centre techniques, and providing 
access to written guides on many career pathways.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern European Language Scholarships (MELS) were launched in 2014 and aim to attract the most outstanding language students to UCL. Five awards are made each year. Applicants must be:Awards consist of £5,000 per year for the duration of the scholar’s programme (to a maximum of four years). Renewal of the scholarship is subject to an average grade of 2:1 being achieved each year. The scholar will be given the option of whether to receive the award as maintenance or tuition fee funding (or a combination of the two).Once you have confirmed UCL as your ‘firm acceptance’ choice, through UCAS, on an eligible programme offered by the School of European Languages, Culture & Society or a language based programme offered by the School of Slavonic & Eastern European Studies, you will automatically be considered for a Modern European Language Scholarship. There are no additional documents required for the scholarships and there is no separate scholarship application form. Selection is primarily on the basis of academic merit – financial circumstances are not taken into account. Candidates will be required to demonstrate their commitment to UCL’s aims of global citizenship, cultural diversity, and a multi-disciplinary approach to their studies.Selection will be made by a joint panel of academics from SELCS and SSEES.The selection panel meets in early September and successful candidates can expect to be notified by mid-September. Awards will only be made to students who have registered to study at UCL. *NOTE: All scholarship and student funding schemes are subject to availability of funds, and details given here are subject to change at any time. Potential applicants are urged to check information regularly to ensure they are aware of current procedures, deadlines etc.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The information below applies to SELCS students of all departments (Dutch, French, German, Italian, Scandinavian Studies
and Spanish & Latin American Studies). SELCS is part of the AHRC consortium London Arts and
Humanities Partnership (LAHP), along with King’ College, London and the School of
Advanced Study.  More information of these awards, including how to apply can
be found on the LAHP website.NOTE: Applications for
joint-supervision between two of the partners of LAHP, whilst not necessary,
are particularly encouraged.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Our Research covers a broad range of topics, including  cultural history, digital humanities, film, and gender.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				We offer a range of inter-disciplinary Taught Masters Programmes. Find out more and apply now.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				You can find out all the information about current modules taught for the current academic year on our website. This will generally include information about the content, reading lists and academic contacts. This information is a guide only and may be subject to change without notice. If you have questions about a module please get in touch with the relevant contact.For undergraduate modules which start with codes DUTC* (Dutch), FREN* (French), GERM* (German), ITAL* (Italian), PORT* (Portuguese),  SCAN* (Scandinavian), SPAN* (Spanish), LITC* (Comparative Literature) and LCUL* (Language & Culture) please get in touch with the individual language department.Interdepartmental modules are those starting with codes ELCS* and if you have questions about these please get in touch with the SELCS Undergraduate Officers. For postgraduate modules, please visit our Graduate Taught courses page, select your pathway, and you will find the module information there. For help with these please contact SELCS PG Officer.-   Year 1 modules-   Year 2 modules-   Final Year modulesThe School’s ELCS (European Languages, Culture and Society) modules
introduce students to a broad comparative, interdisciplinary and intercultural
approaches to the humanities in modules which complement those followed in
language-specific departments.-   ELCS modulesStudents from other UCL departments (including non-SELCS affiliates) may request to take SELCS elective modules.-   How to request modules at SELCSCome and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				  The School’s ELCS (European Languages, Culture and Society) modules
introduce students to broad comparative, interdisciplinary and intercultural
approaches to the humanities in modules which complement those followed in
language-specific departments. All ELCS modules are taught by the School’s
academic staff and Teaching Fellows and most comprise both core lectures and
small group seminars. Interdepartmental in scope, the modules develop
analytical skills and cultural competences that complement those taught in the
School’s six Departments. The range of topics typically includes:   All modules are taught in English and assessment is based on materials
exclusively in English. Students are, however, encouraged to read texts or
study other materials when possible in the original language and to contribute
to class discussion in the light of their specialist knowledge of a language or
languages and the cultures associated with them. With this in mind, each ELCS
module provides a forum in which students and staff of different departments,
including students from outside SELCS and affiliates from Europe and beyond,
meet and exchange ideas.  There are three types of ELCS modules, First Year, Intermediate and Advanced. 
ELCS1* and ELCS6* modules (First Year and Intermediate) are
 taught in the form of one core lecture and one of a number of 
small-group seminars per week over one term. Students must attend all 
lectures and the seminar group to which they are allocated. ELCS4* 
modules (Advanced) are taught in the form of weekly two-hour seminars 
over one term. Attendance is compulsory. All ELCS modules are valued at 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS each. ELCS1*** are core, introductory first year modules, reserved predominantly for SELCS first year students.Intermediate ELCS modules are designed for SELCS 
second-year students, SELCS  affiliate students and students from 
outside of SELCS. SELCS students are allowed to take one of the SSEES 
cross-cultural modules listed below in place of an ELCS module.Advanced ELCS modules are designed for final-year SELCS undergraduates.Each module comprises 20 contact hours of tuition, taught in either Term 1 or Term 2. Most modules follow one of SELCS’s standard forms of assessment.Some Advanced ELCS modules are available to MA students (incl. MA affiliates). 
The latter follow the same classes as undergraduate students but in 
addition attend additional seminars run exclusively for them. They take a
 different form of assessment from undergraduate students. Please 
contact the SELCS Postgraduate Office   for further advice.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Please note, these lists are provisional. Module options will be finalised as soon as possible.Term 1Term 2 Each module comprises 20 hours of tuition - 10 hours of 
lectures and 10 hours of seminar - taught usually either in Term 1 or 
Term 2, and is worth 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS. Most 
modules follow one of SELCS's standard forms of assessment.Please contact Karin and Jo at selcs.undergraduate@ucl.ac.uk for details. Graduate students (incl. graduate affiliates) - only modules with codes ELCSG*** are available.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1Tutor: Professor Robert LumleyAssessment: 2 assessed essays of 3000 words each Module  Description: The module takes a central proposition of the historic 
avant-garde – that the divide between art and everyday life should be 
overcome – and examines how artists in Europe reinterpreted it in the 
context of societies undergoing major socio-economic transformation 
later in the century. The time-span incorporates the emergence of a 
consumer and television-oriented society that seemed to espouse 
conformism, and a subsequent moment of widespread disaffection and 
revolt. The places at the centre of study are cities: Düsseldorf, Turin,
 Berne, Amsterdam, Paris and London. The module focuses on individual 
artists whose work exercised exceptional influence, and on important 
movements: Pop Art, Situationism, Fluxus, Conceptual Art, and Arte 
Povera. It considers contemporary changes in art practice, such as the 
development of installations, multi-media, and performance work, and 
reflects on its challenge to the dominance of the modernist ‘white cube’
 space. Throughout the module, there is study of critical writing and 
the role of curators, museums and gallerists. In conclusion, an 
assessment is made of the different strategies evolved by artists 
towards everyday life and relationships of power in society. Primary Texts:  Initial Secondary Bibliography: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Jane GilbertPG Assessment: One 6000 word essay (100%).UG Assessment: One 1.5 hour desk examination, and one essay of 3000 words (weighting 50% each)Please note that this Term 2
module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination.Module Description:Metamorphosis, or the self’s radical
transformation, is the subject of one of Ovid’s most famous poems, of numerous
folk tales (werewolves, especially), and thus of the many medieval works that
combine classical antique influences with folklore. People turning into animals
or trees and vice versa figure the relations between colonisers and colonised,
‘civilised’ and ‘savage’, in Europe’s marginal
areas. They may also stand for the terrible deformations that sin performs on
the sinner; or for passion’s devastating or transcendental effects on the
lover. Metamorphosis tests and defines the boundaries of the Western human
‘self’ as subject and as object.In this module we shall look at some medieval instances of metamorphosis in narrative and lyric from a range of European languages, countries and traditions. We shall also investigate modern attitudes to the 'limits of the human', in particular via 'post-human' and 'post-humanist' theoretical approaches (drawing on, for example, animal studies and cyborg studies), with a view to seeing what they can bring to our study of 'pre-humanist' medieval literature - and vice versa.The module will include four segments, each providing a different perspective on metamorphosis: translation, translatio and metaphor; transforming love; devilry; canines, kings and conquests. Although the list of set texts is long, all the works or extracts are short; many are available free online (and please talk to the module tutor before buying anything). Students have the opportunity to focus on particular works or themes.  Primary
Texts and Translations: Initial Secondary Bibliography: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Jane GilbertPG Assessment: One 6000 word essay (100%).UG Assessment: One 1.5 hour desk examination, and one essay of 3000 words (weighting 50% each)Please note that this Term 2
module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination.Module Description:Metamorphosis, or the self’s radical
transformation, is the subject of one of Ovid’s most famous poems, of numerous
folk tales (werewolves, especially), and thus of the many medieval works that
combine classical antique influences with folklore. People turning into animals
or trees and vice versa figure the relations between colonisers and colonised,
‘civilised’ and ‘savage’, in Europe’s marginal
areas. They may also stand for the terrible deformations that sin performs on
the sinner; or for passion’s devastating or transcendental effects on the
lover. Metamorphosis tests and defines the boundaries of the Western human
‘self’ as subject and as object.In this module we shall look at some medieval instances of metamorphosis in narrative and lyric from a range of European languages, countries and traditions. We shall also investigate modern attitudes to the 'limits of the human', in particular via 'post-human' and 'post-humanist' theoretical approaches (drawing on, for example, animal studies and cyborg studies), with a view to seeing what they can bring to our study of 'pre-humanist' medieval literature - and vice versa.The module will include four segments, each providing a different perspective on metamorphosis: translation, translatio and metaphor; transforming love; devilry; canines, kings and conquests. Although the list of set texts is long, all the works or extracts are short; many are available free online (and please talk to the module tutor before buying anything). Students have the opportunity to focus on particular works or themes.  Primary
Texts and Translations: Initial Secondary Bibliography: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 2Tutor: Professor John DickieUG Assessment: One three-hour desk
examination (weighting 100%)PG Assessment: One 6000 word essay (100%).Module Description: The module seeks to bring the latest historical and
sociological research on organized crime, particularly mafia crime, together
with work on representations of violence and masculinity to examine aspects of
the reality of organized crime, our culture’s longstanding fascination with
gangsters, and the interplay of reality and representation in both the
underworld and the ‘upper world’. The mafias of Italy will be a guiding focus,
although there will also be scope for comparison, and for study of other areas
such as the United States, Russia, and Japan. (Almost all of the course
material will be in English. Students who do not know Italian will not be at
any disadvantage.) The module will provide analytical tools for the historical
and sociological study of organized crime, and address specific case studies
aimed at understanding the reality of organized crime, analysing its
representation in the culture, and appreciating the interplay between them. The
more general questions to be addressed may include the following: How can we
define the mafia? How has the mafia been defined historically? How organized is
organized crime? What is the role of women in organized crime, and how has it
changed? What is the significance of ritual and religion in mafia life? How do
mafias begin, and how do they spread? Initial Bibliography: A. Block, East Side,
West Wide: Organizing Crime in New York, 1930-1950, London, 1999. J. Dickie, Cosa
Nostra. A History of the Sicilian Mafia, London, 2004. J. Dickie, Blood
Brotherhoods, London, 2011. J. Dickie, Mafia
Republic, London, 2013 G. Falcone, Men of
Honour. The Truth about the Mafia, London, 1992. (The best book to start with: extremely important.) D. Gambetta, The
Sicilian Mafia: The Business of Private Protection, Harvard UP, 1996. D. Gambetta, Codes of
the Underworld: How Criminals Communicate, Princeton UP, 2009. S. Lupo, Storia della
mafia, Rome, 1996. (History of the
Mafia, New York, 2009) S. Lupo, The Two
Mafias. A Transatlantic History, 1888-2008, New York, 2015 R. Siebert, Secrets of
Life and Death, London, 1996. F. Varese, The Russian
Mafia: Private Protection in a New Market Economy, Oxford, 2005. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Cristina MassaccesiPG Assessment: one 6000 word essay (100 %).UG Assessment: 1 assessed essay of 3000 words and a desk examination of 1.5 hoursPlease note that this Term 2
module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination.  Module Description: In their book The Medium is the Massage, Marshall 
McLuhan and Quentin Fiore point out that ‘societies have always been 
shaped more by the nature of the media by which men communicate than by 
the content of the communication’. This attitude has influenced strongly
 the perception of sequential art and graphic storytelling that, 
penalised by their colourful and pictorial format, have been normally 
connected to simple and escapist contents. The aim of this module will be to present to students 
examples of sequential art narratives characterised by a deep social and
 political engagement. At the same time it will provide them with a 
methodology for analysing and understanding the narrative processes 
behind graphic storytelling and how these processes compare and contrast
 with those of traditional narrative and/or cinema. The module will 
begin with a brief outline of the history of sequential art. Lectures 
and seminars will offer approaches to analyse and discuss a large number
 of themes such as autobiographical elements, social protest, human 
relationships, environmental concerns and historical events by 
considering examples from a range of European, American, Middle-Eastern 
and Japanese graphic novels.  Primary Texts:  Preliminary Critical Texts:  Critical material and additional readings will be provided 
to the students via the Moodle page for the module. Please note that the
 lecture on Japanese manga will take place in the Japan room at the 
British Museum.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(ELCS4013A is for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars take place at the same times as ELCS4013.)UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 1Tutor: Tessa HauswedellPG Assessment: 1 x 6000 word essay (100%).UG Assessment: ELCS4013: 2 assessed essays of 3000 words eachELCS4013A:1 x
essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay (3000 words,
weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to students by
SELCS. Module Description: The study of language and ideology has developed as a 
subfield of sociolinguistics and is linked to issues of language and 
power, identity, ethnicity and discourse.The aims of this module are threefold: students will develop an understanding of: (1) the role of language in the development of cultural identity and nation states, (2) ideologies about language, (3) language as a vehicle for ideology.  In block one, we will look at the role language has 
historically played in the development of regions, nation states and thesupra-national institutions such as the EU; its application in state-funded language and cultural institutions 
(e.g. Académie Française, Goethe Institute; Dutch Language Union) and 
the production of codification material (e.g. grammars, dictionaries, 
language learning material); as well as language policy (e.g. education 
in multilingual settings, language requirements for newcomers). Block two will focus on analysing popular discourse about 
language, with regard to the acceptance of standard languages versus 
regional, social or ethnic variation, and attitudes towards minority 
languages and their speakers, as well as the role of English.Finally, in block three, we will 
consider the role language plays today in the perpetuation of 
(mainstream) ideologies (e.g. neo-liberalism, sexism, racism) by taking a
 critical discourse analysis (Fairclough 1989) approach to examples of 
popular discourse and representation. Students will be given the opportunity to conduct 
independent research into their respective language backgrounds and 
produce case studies. Initial bibliography:  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.  Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(ELCS4013A is for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars take place at the same times as ELCS4013.)UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 1Tutor: Tessa HauswedellPG Assessment: 1 x 6000 word essay (100%).UG Assessment: ELCS4013: 2 assessed essays of 3000 words eachELCS4013A:1 x
essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay (3000 words,
weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to students by
SELCS. Module Description: The study of language and ideology has developed as a 
subfield of sociolinguistics and is linked to issues of language and 
power, identity, ethnicity and discourse.The aims of this module are threefold: students will develop an understanding of: (1) the role of language in the development of cultural identity and nation states, (2) ideologies about language, (3) language as a vehicle for ideology.  In block one, we will look at the role language has 
historically played in the development of regions, nation states and thesupra-national institutions such as the EU; its application in state-funded language and cultural institutions 
(e.g. Académie Française, Goethe Institute; Dutch Language Union) and 
the production of codification material (e.g. grammars, dictionaries, 
language learning material); as well as language policy (e.g. education 
in multilingual settings, language requirements for newcomers). Block two will focus on analysing popular discourse about 
language, with regard to the acceptance of standard languages versus 
regional, social or ethnic variation, and attitudes towards minority 
languages and their speakers, as well as the role of English.Finally, in block three, we will 
consider the role language plays today in the perpetuation of 
(mainstream) ideologies (e.g. neo-liberalism, sexism, racism) by taking a
 critical discourse analysis (Fairclough 1989) approach to examples of 
popular discourse and representation. Students will be given the opportunity to conduct 
independent research into their respective language backgrounds and 
produce case studies. Initial bibliography:  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.  Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Jann MatlockAssessment: Two essays of 3000 words each (weighting 50% each)Module Description:An old adage holds that the female is deadlier than the male. In this module, we’ll consider what makes women so dangerous by asking questions about the violence they perpetrate in literature, film, and “real life.” This module will put women on trial, but it will also consider our complicity in trying them and imprisoning them – even before their murderous acts. We will ask questions about women and the art of murder in order to find out what we admire about their murderous arts, what we want from their danger, and what they teach us about transgression. We will also ask how our fascination with their criminality puts us on trial and teaches us to gain new perspectives on our own desires.During the first weeks of the term, we will look at a series of intrigues around criminality and murder. The Ripper myth and Poe’s detective stories will complement our discussions of the nineteenth-century criminal dossier of Pierre Rivière. For the remainder of the term, we will consider female criminality as a literary and historical problem in the nineteenth century. How does the nineteenth century construct a fantasmatic female criminal? Excerpts from nineteenth-century criminologists, psychiatrists, police bureaucrats, and charity workers (Lombroso and Ferrero, Frégier, Mayhew, Mallet, Ryckère) will help us to establish the parameters of this fantasy criminal. As we read novels and memoirs by both men and women, students will work on projects relating to historical murder cases.We will ask how our literary understanding of female criminality relates to the sensation trials and scandal sheets that printed versions of them. We will look at the insanity defense in history and its relationship to questions of women’s rights in the nineteenth century. What did its use have to do with fears of infanticide, divorce, and the rights of working-class women? We will consider the substitution of the madwoman for the female criminal in the literary versions of female murdering. What kinds of crimes make women dangerous in the novel? What crimes does the novel excuse? Do women novelists engage these lady killers in plots different from those of male novelists? To what extent are the bodies of these killers more dangerous than the weapons they wield? Are they yet more dangerous when they write, like Marie Cappelle-Lafarge, or does their writing give us a chance to catch them in the act? Finally, we will ask what kind of bodies we have investigated, what interests we lodged in these deadly corpuses, and what kinds of crimes we have come to these texts to commit.Primary Texts:Initial Secondary Bibliography: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 (ELCS4016A is for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars take place at the same times as ELCS4016.)Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1Level: AdvancedTutor: James AgarAssessment: ELCS4016: 2 assessed essays of 3000 words eachELCS4016A: 1 x
essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay (3000 words,
weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to students by
SELCS.Please note that students cannot take ELCS4016 alongside FREN4209.The AIDS pandemic has spawned responses from, and posed
questions to, a range of diverse discourses and disciplines: politics,
international relations, religion, education, individual and collective health
management. It has also been seen to mark a ‘crisis in representation’, posing
important questions about the relationships between politics, the personal and
the public domains, issues of narrative and filmic construction and
representation. The pandemic, international in scope but culturally specific in
manifestation, also now has its own complex linguistic and political history
which themselves pose questions to our engagement with history. This course
will examine what might be at stake in the reading and viewing of AIDS.
Texts/films will be drawn from a range of genres and cultures and the course
will also involve extensive secondary reading of historical and
political/activist sources. All of the primary texts engage, in different ways,
issues related to the representation of disease and illness, loss, dying and
death, bereavement, testimony and sexuality, especially gay male sexuality. Primary Texts will be selected from the following: Pier Vittorio Tondelli, Separate Rooms (Serpent’s Tail) [Camere
separate (1989, Bompiani)]: Italian novelHervé Guibert, To The Friend Who Did Not Save My Life (Quartet) [A
l’ami qui ne m’a pas sauvé la vie (1990, folio)]: French ‘autofiction’Thom Gunn, The Man With
Night Sweats (1992): Anglo-American poetryAdam Mars-Jones, selected
short stories from Monopolies of Loss (1992): UK short stories.Selected sequences from UK TV
series: This Life (1996/7) and Queer as Folk (1999).Andrew Holleran, The
Beauty of Men (1996): US novel Derek Jarman, Edward II (1991): UK independent filmGregg Araki, dir., The
Living End. An Irresponsible Movie by Gregg Araki (1992): US independent
film.Cyril Collard, dir., Savage
Nights [Les Nuits fauves (1992)]: French feature film.Jonathan Demme, dir., Philadelphia
(1993): Hollywood feature filmInitial Secondary Bibliography: Susan Sontag, Illness as Metaphor. AIDS and its Metaphors (London: Penguin, 1991)Jeffrey Weeks, Against Nature. Essays on History,
Sexuality and Identity(London: Rivers Oram Press, 1991)AIDS and Contemporary History ed. by Virginia
Berridge and Philip Strong (Cambridge: CUP, 1993)AIDS: Cultural Analysis Cultural Activism ed. by
Douglas Crimp (London: MIT Press, 1993)Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of 
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the 
academic year.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 (ELCS4016A is for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars take place at the same times as ELCS4016.)Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1Level: AdvancedTutor: James AgarAssessment: ELCS4016: 2 assessed essays of 3000 words eachELCS4016A: 1 x
essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay (3000 words,
weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to students by
SELCS.Please note that students cannot take ELCS4016 alongside FREN4209.The AIDS pandemic has spawned responses from, and posed
questions to, a range of diverse discourses and disciplines: politics,
international relations, religion, education, individual and collective health
management. It has also been seen to mark a ‘crisis in representation’, posing
important questions about the relationships between politics, the personal and
the public domains, issues of narrative and filmic construction and
representation. The pandemic, international in scope but culturally specific in
manifestation, also now has its own complex linguistic and political history
which themselves pose questions to our engagement with history. This course
will examine what might be at stake in the reading and viewing of AIDS.
Texts/films will be drawn from a range of genres and cultures and the course
will also involve extensive secondary reading of historical and
political/activist sources. All of the primary texts engage, in different ways,
issues related to the representation of disease and illness, loss, dying and
death, bereavement, testimony and sexuality, especially gay male sexuality. Primary Texts will be selected from the following: Pier Vittorio Tondelli, Separate Rooms (Serpent’s Tail) [Camere
separate (1989, Bompiani)]: Italian novelHervé Guibert, To The Friend Who Did Not Save My Life (Quartet) [A
l’ami qui ne m’a pas sauvé la vie (1990, folio)]: French ‘autofiction’Thom Gunn, The Man With
Night Sweats (1992): Anglo-American poetryAdam Mars-Jones, selected
short stories from Monopolies of Loss (1992): UK short stories.Selected sequences from UK TV
series: This Life (1996/7) and Queer as Folk (1999).Andrew Holleran, The
Beauty of Men (1996): US novel Derek Jarman, Edward II (1991): UK independent filmGregg Araki, dir., The
Living End. An Irresponsible Movie by Gregg Araki (1992): US independent
film.Cyril Collard, dir., Savage
Nights [Les Nuits fauves (1992)]: French feature film.Jonathan Demme, dir., Philadelphia
(1993): Hollywood feature filmInitial Secondary Bibliography: Susan Sontag, Illness as Metaphor. AIDS and its Metaphors (London: Penguin, 1991)Jeffrey Weeks, Against Nature. Essays on History,
Sexuality and Identity(London: Rivers Oram Press, 1991)AIDS and Contemporary History ed. by Virginia
Berridge and Philip Strong (Cambridge: CUP, 1993)AIDS: Cultural Analysis Cultural Activism ed. by
Douglas Crimp (London: MIT Press, 1993)Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of 
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the 
academic year.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(ELCS4018A is for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars take place at the same times as ELCS4018.)UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 1Tutor: Dr Reinier van StratenPG Assessment: 1 x 6000 essay (100%).UG Assessment: ELCS4018: Two assessed essays of 3000 words each (weighting 50% each)ELCS4018A: 1 x
essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay (3,000 words,
weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to students by
SELCS.Module Description:Shame is one of the most common and complex emotions. It presents on the body as a blush, in a lowering of the eyes or in a covering of the face. For those who are shamed, it may be accompanied by intense pain and suffering, while for those who shame, there are issues of power and domination at stake. The shameless, meanwhile, apparently have no values to transgress. Shame, which is related to but distinct from other emotions such as guilt, humiliation, embarrassment and disgrace, is both personal and social: it has to do with ideas about the self and its relationship to a moral and ethical community. As such, for some shame is narcissistic, potentially reactive and can only have negative repercussions, while for others it can be productive and redemptive, as much for the individual as for society. Shame is of obvious interest in the fields of anthropology, human rights, law, philosophy, psychology and sociology, disciplines which have all thought about this emotion in different ways. So what can literature tell us about shame and how does it speak of it? Indeed, what can literature have to do with emotion at all, given the evident discrepancy between the considered, intellectual process of writing and the unpredictable, assaultive quality of this, unwanted, sometimes even unwarranted affect? This module seeks to address such questions, among others, through an examination of a corpus of contemporary ‘shame writing’ in the Americas. Following an exploration of different concepts, definitions and theories of shame, and taking into account important paradigms developed in the European context (for example, in relation to the Holocaust), the module will consider a number of literary and philosophical works which speak to experiences of historical and personal shame in North and South America: from the foundational humiliation of the Conquest to the protracted period of post-revolutionary disillusionment in Mexico; the debacles of the Vietnam and Malvinas wars; and the experience of ‘disappearance’ and torture under military dictatorship in the Southern Cone. Primary Texts:Initial Secondary Bibliography: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(ELCS4018A is for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars take place at the same times as ELCS4018.)UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 1Tutor: Dr Reinier van StratenPG Assessment: 1 x 6000 essay (100%).UG Assessment: ELCS4018: Two assessed essays of 3000 words each (weighting 50% each)ELCS4018A: 1 x
essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay (3,000 words,
weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to students by
SELCS.Module Description:Shame is one of the most common and complex emotions. It presents on the body as a blush, in a lowering of the eyes or in a covering of the face. For those who are shamed, it may be accompanied by intense pain and suffering, while for those who shame, there are issues of power and domination at stake. The shameless, meanwhile, apparently have no values to transgress. Shame, which is related to but distinct from other emotions such as guilt, humiliation, embarrassment and disgrace, is both personal and social: it has to do with ideas about the self and its relationship to a moral and ethical community. As such, for some shame is narcissistic, potentially reactive and can only have negative repercussions, while for others it can be productive and redemptive, as much for the individual as for society. Shame is of obvious interest in the fields of anthropology, human rights, law, philosophy, psychology and sociology, disciplines which have all thought about this emotion in different ways. So what can literature tell us about shame and how does it speak of it? Indeed, what can literature have to do with emotion at all, given the evident discrepancy between the considered, intellectual process of writing and the unpredictable, assaultive quality of this, unwanted, sometimes even unwarranted affect? This module seeks to address such questions, among others, through an examination of a corpus of contemporary ‘shame writing’ in the Americas. Following an exploration of different concepts, definitions and theories of shame, and taking into account important paradigms developed in the European context (for example, in relation to the Holocaust), the module will consider a number of literary and philosophical works which speak to experiences of historical and personal shame in North and South America: from the foundational humiliation of the Conquest to the protracted period of post-revolutionary disillusionment in Mexico; the debacles of the Vietnam and Malvinas wars; and the experience of ‘disappearance’ and torture under military dictatorship in the Southern Cone. Primary Texts:Initial Secondary Bibliography: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(ELCS4023A is for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars take place at the same times as ELCS4023.)UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 1Tutor: Dr Thibaut Maus
de RolleyPG Assessment: 1 x 6000 word essay (100%).UG Assessment: ELCS4023: Two essays of 3000 words each (weighting 50% each)ELCS4023A: 1 x
essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay (3,000 words,
weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to students by
SELCS.Module Description:  The literary tradition of the space-travel narrative developed
well before man could fly. In the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, authors
of fictions of cosmic voyages were propelled by the wings of imagination, but
also by artefacts such as maps, which offered the possibility to look at the
Earth from above – as if flying in the air – and telescopes, whose ‘wings of
glass’ allowed to ‘fly to the heaven quick as lightning’ and explore, at least
with the eye, other worlds than our own (Tesauro, 1654). In this module, we
will read and discuss a series of fictions of lunar voyages. Starting with
Lucian’s satirical Icaromenippus and True History (2nd c. AD),
the models of most early modern tales of celestial journeys, we will then study
the lunar episode of Ariosto’s Orlando furioso (1516-32; cantos 33-36),
where the knight Astolfo ascends to the Moon in order to retrieve Orlando’s
lost wits; Francis Godwin’s Man in the Moone (1638), the picaresque
account of a lunar journey; and Cyrano de Bergerac’s Voyage to the Moon
(1657), where the narrator travels to the Moon in order to answer a dizzying
question: What if the Moon were another world for which ours served as a moon? One of the main functions of these flights of fancy is to produce a
‘decentering’ of the world, by stimulating the invention of alternative worlds
and societies, and offering the possibility to see the Earth from a radically
different (and often critical) point of view. These tales are consummate
fables, where travellers are carried through the air by feathered wings
(Lucian), flaming chariots (Ariosto), flying machines towed by
fowls (Godwin) or fireworks and beef-marrow (Cyrano). And yet, as we shall see,
they allow to explore the complex interactions between literature and science
in the period, not only because they may appear as early examples of science
fiction writing (a category that we shall define and discuss), but also because
most of them constitute vehicles and instruments of knowledge in a period of
major scientific upheaval – the so-called ‘scientific revolution'. Objectives of the module Students following this module should: • Gain or develop a knowledge of early modern European
literature, history and culture; • Develop their ability to critically analyse and discuss
literary texts, using the relevant secondary sources; • Develop their ability to analyse texts with a comparative
approach; • Gain an in-depth knowledge and understanding of the genre of
the imaginary voyage, and develop their knowledge of related genres (e. g.
travel writing, utopian literature, satire, science fiction), in the early
modern period and beyond; • Acquire notions of early modern history of science (geography,
astronomy); • Familiarize themselves with literary approaches to scientific
discourse, as well as with epistemological readings of literary texts.  Prescribed Texts • Lucian. Selected Dialogues, ed. and trans. C. D. N.
Costa. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2009. [Icaromenippus, or High above
the clouds, 45-60; A True History, 203-233.] • Ariosto, Lodovico. Orlando furioso, trans. Guido
Waldman. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1998. [Cantos 33-35.] Suggested
Italian edition: Orlando furioso e Cinque Canti, ed. R. Ceserani and S.
Zatti. Torino: UTET, 1997. • Godwin, Francis. The Man in the Moone [1638], ed.
William Poole. Toronto: Broadview Press, 2009. • Cyrano de Bergerac, Savinien de. Journey to the Moon
[1657], trans. Andrew Brown. London: Hesperus Press, 2007. (Or any other modern
edition.) Suggested French edition: Any modern critical edition. Initial Secondary Bibliography • Ait-Touati, Frédérique. Fictions of the Cosmos: Science and
Literature in the Seventeenth Century. Chicago: University of Chicago Press,
2011. • Campbell, Mary B. Wonder and Science: Imagining Worlds in
Early Modern Europe. Cornell University Press, 1999. • Maus de Rolley, Thibaut. Elévations: L’écriture du voyage
aérien à la Renaissance. Geneva: Droz, 2011. • Montgomery, Scott L. The Moon and the Western Imagination.
Tucson: The University of Arizona Press, 1999. • Parrett, Aaron. The Translunar Narrative in the Western
Tradition. Aldershot: Ashgate, 2004. • Principe, Lawrence M. The Scientific Revolution: A Very
Short Introduction. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2011. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(ELCS4023A is for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars take place at the same times as ELCS4023.)UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 1Tutor: Dr Thibaut Maus
de RolleyPG Assessment: 1 x 6000 word essay (100%).UG Assessment: ELCS4023: Two essays of 3000 words each (weighting 50% each)ELCS4023A: 1 x
essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay (3,000 words,
weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to students by
SELCS.Module Description:  The literary tradition of the space-travel narrative developed
well before man could fly. In the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, authors
of fictions of cosmic voyages were propelled by the wings of imagination, but
also by artefacts such as maps, which offered the possibility to look at the
Earth from above – as if flying in the air – and telescopes, whose ‘wings of
glass’ allowed to ‘fly to the heaven quick as lightning’ and explore, at least
with the eye, other worlds than our own (Tesauro, 1654). In this module, we
will read and discuss a series of fictions of lunar voyages. Starting with
Lucian’s satirical Icaromenippus and True History (2nd c. AD),
the models of most early modern tales of celestial journeys, we will then study
the lunar episode of Ariosto’s Orlando furioso (1516-32; cantos 33-36),
where the knight Astolfo ascends to the Moon in order to retrieve Orlando’s
lost wits; Francis Godwin’s Man in the Moone (1638), the picaresque
account of a lunar journey; and Cyrano de Bergerac’s Voyage to the Moon
(1657), where the narrator travels to the Moon in order to answer a dizzying
question: What if the Moon were another world for which ours served as a moon? One of the main functions of these flights of fancy is to produce a
‘decentering’ of the world, by stimulating the invention of alternative worlds
and societies, and offering the possibility to see the Earth from a radically
different (and often critical) point of view. These tales are consummate
fables, where travellers are carried through the air by feathered wings
(Lucian), flaming chariots (Ariosto), flying machines towed by
fowls (Godwin) or fireworks and beef-marrow (Cyrano). And yet, as we shall see,
they allow to explore the complex interactions between literature and science
in the period, not only because they may appear as early examples of science
fiction writing (a category that we shall define and discuss), but also because
most of them constitute vehicles and instruments of knowledge in a period of
major scientific upheaval – the so-called ‘scientific revolution'. Objectives of the module Students following this module should: • Gain or develop a knowledge of early modern European
literature, history and culture; • Develop their ability to critically analyse and discuss
literary texts, using the relevant secondary sources; • Develop their ability to analyse texts with a comparative
approach; • Gain an in-depth knowledge and understanding of the genre of
the imaginary voyage, and develop their knowledge of related genres (e. g.
travel writing, utopian literature, satire, science fiction), in the early
modern period and beyond; • Acquire notions of early modern history of science (geography,
astronomy); • Familiarize themselves with literary approaches to scientific
discourse, as well as with epistemological readings of literary texts.  Prescribed Texts • Lucian. Selected Dialogues, ed. and trans. C. D. N.
Costa. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2009. [Icaromenippus, or High above
the clouds, 45-60; A True History, 203-233.] • Ariosto, Lodovico. Orlando furioso, trans. Guido
Waldman. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1998. [Cantos 33-35.] Suggested
Italian edition: Orlando furioso e Cinque Canti, ed. R. Ceserani and S.
Zatti. Torino: UTET, 1997. • Godwin, Francis. The Man in the Moone [1638], ed.
William Poole. Toronto: Broadview Press, 2009. • Cyrano de Bergerac, Savinien de. Journey to the Moon
[1657], trans. Andrew Brown. London: Hesperus Press, 2007. (Or any other modern
edition.) Suggested French edition: Any modern critical edition. Initial Secondary Bibliography • Ait-Touati, Frédérique. Fictions of the Cosmos: Science and
Literature in the Seventeenth Century. Chicago: University of Chicago Press,
2011. • Campbell, Mary B. Wonder and Science: Imagining Worlds in
Early Modern Europe. Cornell University Press, 1999. • Maus de Rolley, Thibaut. Elévations: L’écriture du voyage
aérien à la Renaissance. Geneva: Droz, 2011. • Montgomery, Scott L. The Moon and the Western Imagination.
Tucson: The University of Arizona Press, 1999. • Parrett, Aaron. The Translunar Narrative in the Western
Tradition. Aldershot: Ashgate, 2004. • Principe, Lawrence M. The Scientific Revolution: A Very
Short Introduction. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2011. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2Tutor: Ruth AustinAssessment: Two essays of 3000 words each (weighting 50% each)Module Description:Taking films from different European countries with an
experience of resistance, this course will consider representations of resistance
to invasion and occupation during the Second World War. By considering films from countries which experienced occupation
directly as well as those which did not, the course will reflect on the way resistance
has been represented on film and the way in which the representations engage
directly or indirectly with on-going debates surrounding memory and
memorialisation. The extent to which film
engages with debates taking place outside of the cinema as well as instigating
such debates will be explored. In the
examples taken from French cinema we will consider the films alongside aspects
of the debate regarding the legacy of occupation and collaboration. From our British examples we will consider
the way in which the representation of resistance has been used both as a tool
of propaganda and as an example of an ‘alternate history’. In other examples we will consider responses
to occupation and representations of resistance in the period of political
uncertainty which accompanied liberation and the years that followed. List of films:List of films for
secondary study: Initial
bibliography:  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2Convenor: Dr Humberto Nunez-Faraco Assessment: One three-hour desk
examination (weighting 100%)Please note that students who have previously taken ELCS6051 cannot take ELCS4027.This module addresses a
number of questions related to
the socio-political context in which moral and philosophical discourses are
produced. In this respect, it considers a crucial event in twentieth-century
European history, namely, totalitarianism (together with its sequels: political
nationalism, racism, and anti-Semitism), an issue for which Jorge Luis
Borges expressed a deep concern during the 1930s and 40s in an increasingly
pro-Fascist Argentina. In order to produce a critique of totalitarian
ideologies, the module investigates various influential writings (both for and
against fascism) as well as other important works on political theory written
during the inter-war and post-war years, particularly in connection with
Fascist Italy and Nazi Germany.


All
classes combine an initial 50-minute lecture followed by a reading seminar
(group discussion). There will be a 5-minute pause in-between. Students are
kindly requested to read in advance the corresponding texts for each week.
Full class notes will be posted on Moodle after each lecture/seminar.
A digital copy of all the set texts will be available on Moodle. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Lee Grieveson  Assessment: One essay of 2000 words (weighting 40%), one essay of 3000 words (weighting 60%)This module examines the
history and political economy of mechanized mass media, beginning principally
with cinema and exploring subsequent forms including radio, television, and the
convergent media of the digital age. It examines state policies across
different state systems (e.g in liberal democratic states, in authoritarian
states, or in the kinds of ideological state systems that proliferated across
the twentieth century); the emergence of a corporate media system financed
through advertising; the alternatives to that increasingly dominant system
(e.g. public service broadcasting, or state control of media networks); and the
(potentially) radical shifts of the digital age and the emergence of new forms
of convergent and social media. How have powerful institutions – such as
states, or corporations – sought to use media? What policies have shaped how
media functions? What roles have media played in the orchestration of modern
forms of power? How has media been regulated and censored? What public spheres
are framed and shaped by media? What alternatives to dominant media forms and
systems have been established, and what can we learn from those texts and
histories? The course will seek to explore these varied questions drawing on
examples from across the globe and history. It will examine media texts and
policies in the context in particular of histories of the global capitalist
system from the late nineteenth century onwards. The course examines media systems – including ownership, profit
imperatives, state regulation and control – and the ideologies and government
policies that sustain these arrangements. It takes a historical and comparative
approach, examining the emergence of new forms of mechanized mass media from
the late-nineteenth century onwards – up to contemporary forms of digital and
social media – and the different media systems and policy frameworks that
develop across the globe in the twentieth and twenty-first centuries. The
course will examine also alternative forms of media and media policy, assessing
in particular the possibilities presented by new forms of digital media and
media networks. It does all this on the assumption that educating our students
about the ways in which media has been shaped and deployed is essential to the
urgent task to create new forms of global social, political, and economic
justice. No meaningful transformation of a profoundly destructive and
exploitative global political economic reality is possible without transforming
our media systems. This class is offered as a small contribution to that urgent
imperative.  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Jeff BowersoxPG Assessment: One 6000 word essay (weighting 100%).UG Assessment: One 5000 word research essay (weighting 100%)Please note that students cannot take ELCS4030 alongside GERM4144. Students who have previously taken ELCS6088 cannot take ELCS4030. Module Description:What
is “blackness” and how have understandings of this concept shaped the lives of
Europeans of all shades up from the Middle Ages to the present-day?In
this module we will examine the development of an African diaspora in Europe
and the coincident development of European ideas about blackness and
whiteness.  We will explore the transnational connections binding black
communities in Europe, while also paying due attention to the local
specificities that created varied experiences and identities across the
continent.  We will survey the contexts that brought Africans and their
descendants to Europe, and we will consider the diverse ways in which peoples
of African descent have shaped and been shaped by societies that variously
tolerated them, rejected them, or accepted them on specific terms. Within the
broad and overlapping contexts of slavery and emancipation, imperialism,
Americanization, globalization, and multiculturalism we will explore politics
and protest, nationalism and internationalism, art and literature, jazz and
hip-hop.  And we will focus on such themes as race, gender, power,
subjectivity, and community-building in various state contexts.In
sum, the module will complicate the idea of a single black experience while
also providing an appreciation for the economic, political, social, and
cultural developments that have bound black communities.  In so doing, we
will come to understand the production and maintenance of a “diaspora” as a
continual, complex, and contested process and, at the same time, open up new
perspectives on what constitutes “European” history.
  Primary
Texts:Weekly
readings will be selected from a range of primary and secondary sources,
including the following: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 Term 1 Term 2Each module comprises 20 hours of tuition - 10 hours of 
lectures and 10 hours of seminar - taught usually either in Term 1 or 
Term 2, and is worth 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS. Most 
modules follow one of SELCS's standard forms of assessment.Please contact Karin and Jo at selcs.undergraduate@ucl.ac.uk for details. Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 (ELCS6027A is for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars take place at the same times as ELCS6027.) Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1Convenor: Ulrich TiedauTutors: various
Assessment: ELCS6027: One 500 word essay plan (weighting 15%), one 20 minute oral presentation (weighting 10%), one 4000 word essay (weighting 75%).ELCS6027A: 1 x
essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay (3000 words,
weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to students by
SELCS.What does it mean to be European at the beginning of 
the twenty-first century? Why have issues of nationality, ethnicity and 
race become so central to Europeans during the last few years? What is 
the historical and cultural background to developments such as the 
fracturing of former multi-national states, the worrying rise of populists and the far
 right in politics, the development of a supra-national European Union, 
and the public debate on asylum and immigration? This module will 
examine recent debates about the nation-state, national identity, 
ethnicity, immigration and the idea of Europe from the end of the Cold 
War to the present day. By the end of this module you will be able to: Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: Primary TextsThere is a vast scholarly 
literature on the themes covered by this module. The module readings will be made available online and introduce you to the most important 
contributions on nationalism theory and individual case studies.Many texts are also contained in The Ethnicity Reader, edited by Monteserrat Guibernau and John Rex, 2nd ed., Cambridge: Polity, 2010, and/or the Oxford Reader on Ethnicity, ed. by John Hutchinson and Anthony D. Smith, Oxford: 1996. If you prefer to read in print, it might be worth getting one or both books from the library (or a book store). Several copies of both are held by UCL Library as well as by Senate House Library, to which as UCL students you have access (check their website about how to get a reader's pass).We will
 also make use of high-quality online resources like podcasts, web 
databases, and discussion forums. A comprehensive reading list for 
preparing your essays will be posted on Moodle. Initial Secondary Bibliography Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 (ELCS6027A is for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars take place at the same times as ELCS6027.) Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1Convenor: Ulrich TiedauTutors: various
Assessment: ELCS6027: One 500 word essay plan (weighting 15%), one 20 minute oral presentation (weighting 10%), one 4000 word essay (weighting 75%).ELCS6027A: 1 x
essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay (3000 words,
weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to students by
SELCS.What does it mean to be European at the beginning of 
the twenty-first century? Why have issues of nationality, ethnicity and 
race become so central to Europeans during the last few years? What is 
the historical and cultural background to developments such as the 
fracturing of former multi-national states, the worrying rise of populists and the far
 right in politics, the development of a supra-national European Union, 
and the public debate on asylum and immigration? This module will 
examine recent debates about the nation-state, national identity, 
ethnicity, immigration and the idea of Europe from the end of the Cold 
War to the present day. By the end of this module you will be able to: Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: Primary TextsThere is a vast scholarly 
literature on the themes covered by this module. The module readings will be made available online and introduce you to the most important 
contributions on nationalism theory and individual case studies.Many texts are also contained in The Ethnicity Reader, edited by Monteserrat Guibernau and John Rex, 2nd ed., Cambridge: Polity, 2010, and/or the Oxford Reader on Ethnicity, ed. by John Hutchinson and Anthony D. Smith, Oxford: 1996. If you prefer to read in print, it might be worth getting one or both books from the library (or a book store). Several copies of both are held by UCL Library as well as by Senate House Library, to which as UCL students you have access (check their website about how to get a reader's pass).We will
 also make use of high-quality online resources like podcasts, web 
databases, and discussion forums. A comprehensive reading list for 
preparing your essays will be posted on Moodle. Initial Secondary Bibliography Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 (ELCS6041A is for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars take place at the same times as ELCS6041.)Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1Convenor: Ruth Austin Tutor: various Assessment: ELCS6041: Two essays of 2000 words each (weighting 50% each)ELCS6041A: 1 x
essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay (3000 words,
weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to students by
SELCS. Through the study of some of the most controversial and
celebrated examples of what may be termed as utopian, anti-utopian and
dystopian literature this module will explore key elements of dystopian /
anti-utopian literature from the twentieth century. The module examines
themes such as the control and manipulation of language, as well as religion,
history and gender and considers the way in which the contemporary can be
explored in an imagined future. Charlotte Perkins Gilman’s Herland (1915) is set in an
isolated society made up entirely of women and engages with issues relating to
gender identity in the early part of the twentieth century. Zamyatin's We (1924)
presents a totalitarian society, "OneState', and is arguably the archetype
of the modern dystopia. Brave New World (1931) in an imagined future
engages with questions of identity, mass production, homogenization post World
War One. In A Clockwork Orange (1962) Anthony Burgess experiments with
the use of language in a text which engages with questions about violence and
free-will. J. G. Ballard’s The Drowned World (1962) is set in a
post-apocalyptic world in which only remnants of society and social order
remain. 
Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: Primary Texts: Initial Secondary Bibliography: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 (ELCS6041A is for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars take place at the same times as ELCS6041.)Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1Convenor: Ruth Austin Tutor: various Assessment: ELCS6041: Two essays of 2000 words each (weighting 50% each)ELCS6041A: 1 x
essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay (3000 words,
weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to students by
SELCS. Through the study of some of the most controversial and
celebrated examples of what may be termed as utopian, anti-utopian and
dystopian literature this module will explore key elements of dystopian /
anti-utopian literature from the twentieth century. The module examines
themes such as the control and manipulation of language, as well as religion,
history and gender and considers the way in which the contemporary can be
explored in an imagined future. Charlotte Perkins Gilman’s Herland (1915) is set in an
isolated society made up entirely of women and engages with issues relating to
gender identity in the early part of the twentieth century. Zamyatin's We (1924)
presents a totalitarian society, "OneState', and is arguably the archetype
of the modern dystopia. Brave New World (1931) in an imagined future
engages with questions of identity, mass production, homogenization post World
War One. In A Clockwork Orange (1962) Anthony Burgess experiments with
the use of language in a text which engages with questions about violence and
free-will. J. G. Ballard’s The Drowned World (1962) is set in a
post-apocalyptic world in which only remnants of society and social order
remain. 
Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: Primary Texts: Initial Secondary Bibliography: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(ELCS6085A is for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars take place at the same times as ELCS6085.) Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1Convenor: Dr Geraldine Brodie Tutor: various Assessment: ELCS6085: One written report of 500 words (weighting 10%), one written
report of 1,000 words (weighting 20%) and one essay of 2500 words (weighting
70%)

ELCS6085A: 1 x
essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay (3000 words,
weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to students by
SELCS.This module interrogates cultural transfer through
translation from the perspective of theatrical performance. Recent productions
of European theatre translated bi-directionally between English and other
European languages will be studied on a thematic basis using play texts in the
original and in translation, supplemented by recorded visual material. In addition
to exploring canonical European playwrights, including William Shakespeare, Carlo
Goldoni and Henrik Ibsen, sessions will examine the reception of contemporary
playwrights across Europe, for example Dario Fo and Martin Crimp. The module
provides an introduction to performance and cultural theory, including Bertolt
Brecht, Roland Barthes and Walter Benjamin, and a consideration of key
translation issues such as collaboration, rewriting, invisibility and foreignization.
Primary texts will be studied in English, but as the aim of the course is to
compare different translations and performances, students will be invited to
contribute from the perspective of their individual studied language(s) and
culture(s).Initial Reading List:   Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(ELCS6100A is for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars take place at the same times as ELCS6100.)Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1Convenors: Dr Cristina Massaccesi and Dr Lucia Rinaldi
Tutor: various
 Assessment: ELCS6100: Two written reports of 500 words each
(weighting 15% each), one essay of 3000 words (weighting 70%), ELCS6100A: 1 x
essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay (3000 words,
weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to students by
SELCS. Module Overview: This
intermediate module will introduce students to the study of film genres by
focusing on historical, theoretical and technical aspects. Through lectures,
seminars, and screenings, the students will learn how to approach and discuss
film genres analytically and will acquire an awareness of the history and
development of different types of film narratives and of key concepts that can
be used to discuss and write about them.During the course the students will familiarise themselves with those elements that are at the basis of genre theory, such as contexts, recurring themes and patterns, locations and characters, while developing an appropriate technical vocabulary to be used in class discussions and in their assessment.Programme:Week 1: Key
concepts in film analysisWeek 2:
Introduction to Genre TheoryWeek 3: Gothic Week 4: VampiresWeek 5: Science
Fiction Week 6: Reading
WeekWeek 7: Crime and InvestigationWeek 8: NoirWeek 9: WarWeek 10: History Week 11: ConflictSet films:· The Innocents (J. Clayton, UK, 1961)· Låt den rätte komma in (Let the Right
One In, T. Alfredson, Sweden, 2009)· Blade Runner (R. Scott, UK, 1982)· The Maltese Falcon (J. Houston, USA, 1941)· Ascenseur pour l'échafaud (Lift to the
Scaffold, L. Malle, France, 1958)· Roma città aperta (Rome, Open City, R.
Rossellini, Italy, 1945)· Marie Antoinette (S. Coppola, USA, 2006)· Persepolis (V. Paronnaud, France, 2008)Preparatory Reading:· Rick Altman, Film/Genre (Palgrave
MacMillan, 1999).· David Bordwell & Kristin Thompson, Film History: an introduction
(McGraw-Hill, 2009)· Timothy Corrigan, The Film Experience
(Bedford St Martin's, 2009).· John Hill & Pamela Church Gibson, The
Oxford Guide to Film Studies (Oxford University Press, 1998).· Brian McFarlane, Novel to Film. An
Introduction to the Theory of Adaptation (Clarendon Press, 1996).· James Monaco, How to Read a Film (OUP,
2000). Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(ELCS6100A is for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars take place at the same times as ELCS6100.)Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1Convenors: Dr Cristina Massaccesi and Dr Lucia Rinaldi
Tutor: various
 Assessment: ELCS6100: Two written reports of 500 words each
(weighting 15% each), one essay of 3000 words (weighting 70%), ELCS6100A: 1 x
essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay (3000 words,
weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to students by
SELCS. Module Overview: This
intermediate module will introduce students to the study of film genres by
focusing on historical, theoretical and technical aspects. Through lectures,
seminars, and screenings, the students will learn how to approach and discuss
film genres analytically and will acquire an awareness of the history and
development of different types of film narratives and of key concepts that can
be used to discuss and write about them.During the course the students will familiarise themselves with those elements that are at the basis of genre theory, such as contexts, recurring themes and patterns, locations and characters, while developing an appropriate technical vocabulary to be used in class discussions and in their assessment.Programme:Week 1: Key
concepts in film analysisWeek 2:
Introduction to Genre TheoryWeek 3: Gothic Week 4: VampiresWeek 5: Science
Fiction Week 6: Reading
WeekWeek 7: Crime and InvestigationWeek 8: NoirWeek 9: WarWeek 10: History Week 11: Conflict Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2Convenor: Dr Helga Lúthersdóttir
Tutor: various  Assessment: Two-part screening journal (500 words each, weighting 15% each), one
essay of 3000 words (weighting 70%), This is
an intermediate module which introduces the superhero as an aspect of academic
film study. Each lecture will focus on specific sub-topic of the genre,
introducing key concepts, central themes and ideas in context of the primary
readings and screenings. These include, but are not limited to, race, gender,
and sexual orientation, the mythological and the historical superhero, the
anti-hero and the wannabe, the rogue and the villain, and cultural, political,
and historical connections. Our group
seminars will be based on focused analysis of specific films in context of the
ideas, theories, and filmic techniques set out in each week’s lecture. Full
details of primary and secondary screenings will be provided on Moodle by start
of term. Please note that you are expected to watch the screenings in your own time as all of the assigned
films are easily available either online or for purchase. All primary readings
will be posted on Moodle either as URLs or as PDFs. Extended secondary
bibliography will also be provided. Students who choose to prepare for the
course ahead of term are advised to view as many superhero films as they have
the time and energy for. We may not cover each and every film you have watched,
but extended knowledge of the genre will make discussions more fun and the
appreciation and grasp of the subject greater. If you still have a free moment?
Read some comics! Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2Convenor: Dr Helga Lúthersdóttir
Tutor: various  Assessment: Two-part screening journal (500 words each, weighting 15% each), one
essay of 3000 words (weighting 70%), This is
an intermediate module which introduces the superhero as an aspect of academic
film study. Each lecture will focus on specific sub-topic of the genre,
introducing key concepts, central themes and ideas in context of the primary
readings and screenings. These include, but are not limited to, race, gender,
and sexual orientation, the mythological and the historical superhero, the
anti-hero and the wannabe, the rogue and the villain, and cultural, political,
and historical connections. Our group
seminars will be based on focused analysis of specific films in context of the
ideas, theories, and filmic techniques set out in each week’s lecture. Full
details of primary and secondary screenings will be provided on Moodle by start
of term. Please note that you are expected to watch the screenings in your own time as all of the assigned
films are easily available either online or for purchase. All primary readings
will be posted on Moodle either as URLs or as PDFs. Extended secondary
bibliography will also be provided. Students who choose to prepare for the
course ahead of term are advised to view as many superhero films as they have
the time and energy for. We may not cover each and every film you have watched,
but extended knowledge of the genre will make discussions more fun and the
appreciation and grasp of the subject greater. If you still have a free moment?
Read some comics! Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 (ELCS6102A is for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars take place at the same times as ELCS6102.)Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1Convenor: Dr Kevin Inston
Tutor: various
 Assessment: ELCS6102: One essay of 1500 words (weighting 35%), one essay of 2500 words (weighting 65%)ELCS6102A: 1 x
essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay (3000 words,
weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to students by
SELCS. This is an intermediate
module which introduces students to aspects of European Thought. The core
lectures introduce the broad parameters of the topics being studied,
contextualizing thinkers and readings and providing indications of ways of
thinking through materials being read. Small group seminars are based on
focused analysis and student discussion of specific readings in the context set
out by lectures. The course will explore,
among others, the topics of aesthetic judgement, morality and ethics, political
change, ideology and the relation between language and reality.  Set Texts and
Thinkers   Immanuel Kant, The
Critique of Judgement (Oxford: Oxford World Classics, 2009)* Friedrich Nietzsche, The
Genealogy of Morality (London: Penguin, 2003)* Walter Benjamin ‘The Task of the Translator’* Karl Marx and Frederick Engels, The Communist Manifesto (London: Verso, 2012) Simone de Beauvoir, Philosophical
Writings (Chicago: University of Illnois Press, 2004)* Roland Barthes, Mythologies
(London: Vintage classics, 2009). * Extracts or text to be provided via Moodle. Secondary Reading  A list of secondary reading will be provided at the start of
the course. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 (ELCS6102A is for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars take place at the same times as ELCS6102.)Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1Convenor: Dr Kevin Inston
Tutor: various
 Assessment: ELCS6102: One essay of 1500 words (weighting 35%), one essay of 2500 words (weighting 65%)ELCS6102A: 1 x
essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay (3000 words,
weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to students by
SELCS. This is an intermediate
module which introduces students to aspects of European Thought. The core
lectures introduce the broad parameters of the topics being studied,
contextualizing thinkers and readings and providing indications of ways of
thinking through materials being read. Small group seminars are based on
focused analysis and student discussion of specific readings in the context set
out by lectures. The course will explore,
among others, the topics of aesthetic judgement, morality and ethics, political
change, ideology and the relation between language and reality.  Set Texts and
Thinkers   Immanuel Kant, The
Critique of Judgement (Oxford: Oxford World Classics, 2009)* Friedrich Nietzsche, The
Genealogy of Morality (London: Penguin, 2003)* Walter Benjamin ‘The Task of the Translator’* Karl Marx and Frederick Engels, The Communist Manifesto (London: Verso, 2012) Simone de Beauvoir, Philosophical
Writings (Chicago: University of Illnois Press, 2004)* Roland Barthes, Mythologies
(London: Vintage classics, 2009). * Extracts or text to be provided via Moodle. Secondary Reading  A list of secondary reading will be provided at the start of
the course. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2Convenor: Professor Enrico Palandri
Tutor: various
 Assessment: One  essay of 1500 words (weighting 35%), one essay of 2500 words (weighting 65%) We tend to assume that conflicts need to be resolved. But what if
conflict were at the core of politics, society and the family? This course will
investigate medieval, early modern and modern material focusing on scenes of
contest and modes of relationship that foster domination and exclusion. The set
literary, philosophical, operatic, archival and filmic texts depict individuals
and collectives living through some of the major conflicts of European history:
Troy, the Hundred Years' War, the Wars of Religion and the French Revolution.
Intertwined with these large-scale confrontations are generational, social and
gender conflicts, and personal antagonisms.  Jane Lumley’s
play, Iphigenia in Aulis, is set just
before the start of the Trojan War: before the War can begin innocent blood
must be shed, setting in train a tragedy at once domestic, royal and
international. Joan of Arc. One of France's patron saints is a village girl burned at
the stake in 1431, aged 19. Joan altered the course of the century-long war for
the French crown, thus contributing to the development of the modern world of
nation-states. Joan has been interpreted, appropriated and venerated ever
since. We shall study some of the surviving medieval documents, including
trial documents and the celebration of her victories by France's earliest
female professional writer, Christine de Pizan. We shall also look at two
representations produced in the 1920s, shortly after World War I, when her popularity among French soldiers
led to her canonisation: Carl Theodor Dreyer's silent film, The Passion of
Joan of Arc, and George Bernard Shaw's play, Saint Joan. Shakespeare, Henry V: one of the great patriotic texts, an
affirmation of English greatness at home and abroad, but also a complex
exploration of power and warfare, of
national unity, and of the political value of both collective memory and
forgetting. What challenges and opportunities does it offer to audiences today? The Religious Wars and their aftermath: a dossier, including John
Locke’s infamous text on toleration; and a selection of Bayle’s texts on
religious (in)tolerance and the political. Gender and social conflicts erupt in the household of Count
D'Almaviva in one of the most famous operas
by Mozart,
The Marriage of Figaro. We will read how characters in this opera
are representative of the revolutionary ideals that in three years’ time would usher Romanticism in Europe. Our companion will be the
autobiography of the librettist, Lorenzo Da Ponte, one of the great adventurers
of the 18th Century. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: - Jane Lumley, Iphigenia in Aulis (play accessible via
Moodle).  - Shakespeare, Henry V (text and introduction accessible
from Shakespeare Internet Editions here; please
read the 1623 Folio version in modern spelling, and as much of the introductory
material as you have time for. (The most famous film versions are those
directed by Laurence Olivier (1944) and by Kenneth Branagh (1989), both worth
seeing.) - Joan of Arc: a dossier including Christine de Pizan's 'Ditie de
Jeanne d'Arc' (English translation here); Carl Theodor
Dreyer's silent film, The
Passion of Joan of Arc; and George Bernard Shaw's play, Saint Joan.
 - The Religious Wars: a dossier (accessible via Moodle), including
Locke’s Toleration. -
Lorenzo da Ponte, Memoirs; and here the BBC 4 video recording of the Royal Opera House production of The
Marriage of Figaro – available on BOB. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2Convenor: Professor Enrico Palandri
Tutor: various
 Assessment: One  essay of 1500 words (weighting 35%), one essay of 2500 words (weighting 65%) We tend to assume that conflicts need to be resolved. But what if
conflict were at the core of politics, society and the family? This course will
investigate medieval, early modern and modern material focusing on scenes of
contest and modes of relationship that foster domination and exclusion. The set
literary, philosophical, operatic, archival and filmic texts depict individuals
and collectives living through some of the major conflicts of European history:
Troy, the Hundred Years' War, the Wars of Religion and the French Revolution.
Intertwined with these large-scale confrontations are generational, social and
gender conflicts, and personal antagonisms.  Jane Lumley’s
play, Iphigenia in Aulis, is set just
before the start of the Trojan War: before the War can begin innocent blood
must be shed, setting in train a tragedy at once domestic, royal and
international. Joan of Arc. One of France's patron saints is a village girl burned at
the stake in 1431, aged 19. Joan altered the course of the century-long war for
the French crown, thus contributing to the development of the modern world of
nation-states. Joan has been interpreted, appropriated and venerated ever
since. We shall study some of the surviving medieval documents, including
trial documents and the celebration of her victories by France's earliest
female professional writer, Christine de Pizan. We shall also look at two
representations produced in the 1920s, shortly after World War I, when her popularity among French soldiers
led to her canonisation: Carl Theodor Dreyer's silent film, The Passion of
Joan of Arc, and George Bernard Shaw's play, Saint Joan. Shakespeare, Henry V: one of the great patriotic texts, an
affirmation of English greatness at home and abroad, but also a complex
exploration of power and warfare, of
national unity, and of the political value of both collective memory and
forgetting. What challenges and opportunities does it offer to audiences today? The Religious Wars and their aftermath: a dossier, including John
Locke’s infamous text on toleration; and a selection of Bayle’s texts on
religious (in)tolerance and the political. Gender and social conflicts erupt in the household of Count
D'Almaviva in one of the most famous operas
by Mozart,
The Marriage of Figaro. We will read how characters in this opera
are representative of the revolutionary ideals that in three years’ time would usher Romanticism in Europe. Our companion will be the
autobiography of the librettist, Lorenzo Da Ponte, one of the great adventurers
of the 18th Century. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: - Jane Lumley, Iphigenia in Aulis (play accessible via
Moodle).  - Shakespeare, Henry V (text and introduction accessible
from Shakespeare Internet Editions here; please
read the 1623 Folio version in modern spelling, and as much of the introductory
material as you have time for. (The most famous film versions are those
directed by Laurence Olivier (1944) and by Kenneth Branagh (1989), both worth
seeing.) - Joan of Arc: a dossier including Christine de Pizan's 'Ditie de
Jeanne d'Arc' (English translation here); Carl Theodor
Dreyer's silent film, The
Passion of Joan of Arc; and George Bernard Shaw's play, Saint Joan.
 - The Religious Wars: a dossier (accessible via Moodle), including
Locke’s Toleration. -
Lorenzo da Ponte, Memoirs; and here the BBC 4 video recording of the Royal Opera House production of The
Marriage of Figaro – available on BOB. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2Convenor: Professor Andrew Leak
Tutor: various
 Assessment: One essay of 1500 words (weighting 35%), one essay of 2500 words (weighting 65%)Since it’s 'invention' in
the nineteenth century, detective fiction (or more broadly, crime fiction) has grown to be the single best-selling
fictional genre worldwide. That popularity amongst ‘ordinary readers’ has led
some to dismiss it as a ‘minor’ genre – one that can be studied as a
manifestation of popular culture but one not worthy of ‘serious’ critical
attention. That view is outdated. As we will see in this module, the genre has
been appropriated as an instrument of social critique, philosophical reflection
or even as a form of alternative historiography.  The lecture course for ‘Watching the
Detectives’ provides an overview of the genre from the foundational stories of
Edgar Allen Poe through to the postmodern detective novel, passing through the
important sub-genres of the clue-puzzle (Agatha Christie et. al.) and the
hard-boiled, or noir (Hammett,
Chandler et. al.) In the seminars – led by research
specialists in the genre -, students will be reading four novels from
different European traditions. Didier Daeninckx’s Murder
in Memoriam provoked
heated debate when it was published in 1984 because it stirred up memories of
events – especially during World War II and the Algerian war – that France had
been trying hard to repress. Manuel Vásquez-Montalbán’s Tattoo (1974), as well as being a prime
example of modern noir, marks the second
appearance of serial detective Pepe Carvalho and is the first in an important
series of novels recording and critiquing Spain’s ‘transition to democracy’
after the death of Franco. Death in Florence by Marco Vichi, set against the
backdrop of the devastating Florence flood of 1966, explores the dark underside
of the city that offers a very different public face to the world: Inspector
Bordelli investigates the murder and rape of a young boy, and is drawn into a
network of neo-Fascists, Masons, paedophiles and drug-traffickers with
protection in high places... Henning Mankell’s Faceless
Killers (1992) sees
the first appearance of his famous detective Wallander. In this bleak novel,
set at a moment when the cracks in Sweden’s ‘social miracle’ were starting to
widen, the detective has to contend not only with a case that presents precious
few clues but also with a rising climate of racial hatred and right-wing
extremism. please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2Convenor: Professor Andrew Leak
Tutor: various
 Assessment: One essay of 1500 words (weighting 35%), one essay of 2500 words (weighting 65%)Since it’s 'invention' in
the nineteenth century, detective fiction (or more broadly, crime fiction) has grown to be the single best-selling
fictional genre worldwide. That popularity amongst ‘ordinary readers’ has led
some to dismiss it as a ‘minor’ genre – one that can be studied as a
manifestation of popular culture but one not worthy of ‘serious’ critical
attention. That view is outdated. As we will see in this module, the genre has
been appropriated as an instrument of social critique, philosophical reflection
or even as a form of alternative historiography.  The lecture course for ‘Watching the
Detectives’ provides an overview of the genre from the foundational stories of
Edgar Allen Poe through to the postmodern detective novel, passing through the
important sub-genres of the clue-puzzle (Agatha Christie et. al.) and the
hard-boiled, or noir (Hammett,
Chandler et. al.) In the seminars – led by research
specialists in the genre -, students will be reading four novels from
different European traditions. Didier Daeninckx’s Murder
in Memoriam provoked
heated debate when it was published in 1984 because it stirred up memories of
events – especially during World War II and the Algerian war – that France had
been trying hard to repress. Manuel Vásquez-Montalbán’s Tattoo (1974), as well as being a prime
example of modern noir, marks the second
appearance of serial detective Pepe Carvalho and is the first in an important
series of novels recording and critiquing Spain’s ‘transition to democracy’
after the death of Franco. Death in Florence by Marco Vichi, set against the
backdrop of the devastating Florence flood of 1966, explores the dark underside
of the city that offers a very different public face to the world: Inspector
Bordelli investigates the murder and rape of a young boy, and is drawn into a
network of neo-Fascists, Masons, paedophiles and drug-traffickers with
protection in high places... Henning Mankell’s Faceless
Killers (1992) sees
the first appearance of his famous detective Wallander. In this bleak novel,
set at a moment when the cracks in Sweden’s ‘social miracle’ were starting to
widen, the detective has to contend not only with a case that presents precious
few clues but also with a rising climate of racial hatred and right-wing
extremism. Primary TextsMarco Vichi, Death in
Florence (Hodder, 2013) Didier Daeninckx, Murder
in Memoriam (Serpent’s Tale, 1984). Manuel Vásquez-Montalbán, Tattoo (Melville House Publishing, 2013). Henning Mankell, Faceless
Killers (Harvill Press, 2000) Preparatory Reading Christopher Booker, The
Seven Basic Plots, (Continuum, 2005) Richard Bradford, Crime
Fiction: A Very Short Introduction, (OUP, 2005) Jerome Delamater, Theory
and Practice of Classic Detective Fiction,  (Greenwood Press, 1997) Steven Knight,
Crime Fiction Since 1800: Detection, Death, Diversity, (Palgrave Macmillan,
2010) John Scaggs, Crime
Fiction, (Routledge, 2005) Heather Worthington, Key
Concepts in Crime Fiction, (Palgrave Macmillan, 2011)Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(ELCS6105A is for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars take place at the same times as ELCS6105.)Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1Convenor: Dr Thibaut Maus de Rolley
Tutor: various
 Assessment: ELCS6105: One essay of 1500 words (weighting 35%), one essay of 2500 words (weighting 65%)ELCS6105A: 1 x
essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay (3,000 words,
weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to students by
SELCS. Columbus’s landfall on a Caribbean
island, on 12 October 1492, was the starting point of a process that shook the
foundations of the European world. The ‘discovery’ of America opened up new
territory for European colonisation overseas, and together with the expansion
of European travel to Africa and Asia, dramatically reshaped the early modern
geographical imagination. Europeans – starting with travel writers – had to
deal with lands, animals, plants, peoples, customs, beliefs of which they had
had limited or no prior knowledge. Alterity, as an historian puts it, was the
fundamental discovery of the ‘Age of Discovery’. In this comparative course, we will examine a selection of
translated primary texts narrating travels, encounters and confrontations with
extra-European cultures in America and Asia. Though varied in nature, language
and purpose, all these texts – written between 1493 and 1671 – attempt to make
sense of this experience of alterity and to convey it to their European
readers. They address questions that were fundamental to early modern thought
and remain largely pertinent today: How to accurately describe foreign lands
and societies? How to reconcile the new knowledge brought by the experience of
the world with one’s own cultural and intellectual tradition? To what extent did
these foreign lands allow Europeans to see their own society from a decentered
and critical perspective? What can the other teach us about ourselves? Prescribed
Texts · Christopher Columbus,
Letters from the First and Third Voyage (1493-1500)  · Amerigo Vespucci, The New World and Four Voyages (1504-1505) · Hans Staden, True
Story and Description of a Country of Wild, Naked, Grim, Man-eating People in
the New World (excerpts), 1557 · Jean de Léry, History of a Voyage to the Land of Brazil
(excerpts), 1578 · Fernão Mendes Pinto,
Travels (excerpts), 1578 · François Bernier, Travels in the Moghul Empire (excerpts),
1671 Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(ELCS6105A is for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars take place at the same times as ELCS6105.)Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1Convenor: Dr Thibaut Maus de Rolley
Tutor: various
 Assessment: ELCS6105: One essay of 1500 words (weighting 35%), one essay of 2500 words (weighting 65%)ELCS6105A: 1 x
essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay (3,000 words,
weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to students by
SELCS. Columbus’s landfall on a Caribbean
island, on 12 October 1492, was the starting point of a process that shook the
foundations of the European world. The ‘discovery’ of America opened up new
territory for European colonisation overseas, and together with the expansion
of European travel to Africa and Asia, dramatically reshaped the early modern
geographical imagination. Europeans – starting with travel writers – had to
deal with lands, animals, plants, peoples, customs, beliefs of which they had
had limited or no prior knowledge. Alterity, as an historian puts it, was the
fundamental discovery of the ‘Age of Discovery’. In this comparative course, we will examine a selection of
translated primary texts narrating travels, encounters and confrontations with
extra-European cultures in America and Asia. Though varied in nature, language
and purpose, all these texts – written between 1493 and 1671 – attempt to make
sense of this experience of alterity and to convey it to their European
readers. They address questions that were fundamental to early modern thought
and remain largely pertinent today: How to accurately describe foreign lands
and societies? How to reconcile the new knowledge brought by the experience of
the world with one’s own cultural and intellectual tradition? To what extent did
these foreign lands allow Europeans to see their own society from a decentered
and critical perspective? What can the other teach us about ourselves? Prescribed
Texts · Christopher Columbus,
Letters from the First and Third Voyage (1493-1500)  · Amerigo Vespucci, The New World and Four Voyages (1504-1505) · Hans Staden, True
Story and Description of a Country of Wild, Naked, Grim, Man-eating People in
the New World (excerpts), 1557 · Jean de Léry, History of a Voyage to the Land of Brazil
(excerpts), 1578 · Fernão Mendes Pinto,
Travels (excerpts), 1578 · François Bernier, Travels in the Moghul Empire (excerpts),
1671 Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(ELCS6106A is for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars take place at the same times as ELCS6106.)Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1Convenor: Dr Geraldine Horan
Tutor: various
 Assessment: ELCS6106: One essay of 2500 words (weighting
65%), one essay of 1500 words (weighting 35%)ELCS6106A: 1 x
essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay (3000 words,
weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to students by
SELCS.This module focuses on sociolinguistics – the
study of language in society. Language is not only a system, with structures,
patterns and ‘rules’, it is also a tool for communication. It is through
language that we define ourselves and others, signal our identities and
membership of particular communities. The language we use can reveal much about
where we were born and live, our age, gender, level of education and
socio-economic status. Sociolinguistics provides a ‘toolkit’ with which we can
understand the complex relationship between language and society: in the module
we will explore both the theoretical and the practical aspects of language use.
We will examine examples and case studies of language in a social context,
drawing on a sociolinguistic approaches, categories and terminology.Textbook for module:  Janet
Holmes. 2013, An Introduction to Sociolinguistics. 4th edn, London and
New York: Routledge.Please purchase a copy of this.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2Convenor: Professor Vieri Samek-Lodovici
Tutor: various
 Assessment: one three-hour written examination (weighting 100%)The
module examines the organization of human language in the mind of native
speakers. Week by week, it will examine the major components of human language
– namely morphology (the structure of words), syntax (the structure of
sentences), semantics and pragmatics (the meaning attributed to words and sentences),
phonetics (the sounds used in human languages), phonology (how those sounds are
represented in our minds). Module structure: Every week, we will have a main one-hour-long lecture each week  where I cover the material of the course through PowerPoint
presentations (all made available on Moodle as well), plus a second hour
divided in small groups where you will apply what you learnt to real-world
language examples. Reading list: Most
resources, such as articles and online language-related software, will be
available on Moodle. We will also use the
textbook Victoria Fromkin, Robert Rodman, Nina
Hyams. An Introduction to Language.
Wadsworth, Cengage Learning. 10th
Edition, International Edition. 2014. ISBN10: 1-285-07980-9 / ISBN13:
978-1-285-07980-6.  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2Convenor: Dr Mark Shuttleworth
Tutor: various
 Assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (weighting 100%)This is an interdisciplinary module that looks at the
interlinked activities of translation and intercultural communication from
various critical, theoretical and practical perspectives. Translation will be
explored literally in relation to translating across languages and cultures, while
its metaphorical sense of ‘transfer’ is the concept that gives coherence to the
module as a whole. Intercultural communication will be addressed with reference
to conceptualisations of self-other relationships, representations of
otherness, notions of border-crossing and perspectives on cultural differences.
Translation studies topics and case studies will focus on the following kinds
of content: introduction to the discipline, translation across languages and
cultures, translation and the cultural turn, translation and ideology, metaphor
in translation, translation and gender, fansubbing, and translation and empire.
Theoretical content and case studies linked to intercultural communication will
centre around topics such as commedia dell’arte, Africans in Italy, the clash
of civilisations and learning to be at home in another language. The case
studies, as well as the precise content of the module, is likely to vary from
year to year.The module introduces students to ideas of culture,
translation and intercultural understanding and communication. It provides
students with tools and theoretical concepts related to translation across
languages and cultures, conceptualisations of self and other, perspectives on
cultural difference, discursive practices, border crossings etc. to aid analysing
a range of interdisciplinary case studies designed to throw light on the theory
and practice of interlingual, intercultural and metaphorical translation.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:The primary texts to be covered this year are Mor Arlecchino by Marco Martinelli della
Compagnia delle Albe (in English translation), Clash of civilizations over an elevator in Piazza Vittorio by Amara
Lakhous, the feature film Lost in Translation
and extracts from Eva Hoffman’s autobiography, also entitled Lost in translation.Initial Secondary Bibliography: Secondary bibliography will be provided at the start of the
module. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2Convenor: Dr Mark Shuttleworth
Tutor: various
 Assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (weighting 100%)This is an interdisciplinary module that looks at the
interlinked activities of translation and intercultural communication from
various critical, theoretical and practical perspectives. Translation will be
explored literally in relation to translating across languages and cultures, while
its metaphorical sense of ‘transfer’ is the concept that gives coherence to the
module as a whole. Intercultural communication will be addressed with reference
to conceptualisations of self-other relationships, representations of
otherness, notions of border-crossing and perspectives on cultural differences.
Translation studies topics and case studies will focus on the following kinds
of content: introduction to the discipline, translation across languages and
cultures, translation and the cultural turn, translation and ideology, metaphor
in translation, translation and gender, fansubbing, and translation and empire.
Theoretical content and case studies linked to intercultural communication will
centre around topics such as commedia dell’arte, Africans in Italy, the clash
of civilisations and learning to be at home in another language. The case
studies, as well as the precise content of the module, is likely to vary from
year to year.The module introduces students to ideas of culture,
translation and intercultural understanding and communication. It provides
students with tools and theoretical concepts related to translation across
languages and cultures, conceptualisations of self and other, perspectives on
cultural difference, discursive practices, border crossings etc. to aid analysing
a range of interdisciplinary case studies designed to throw light on the theory
and practice of interlingual, intercultural and metaphorical translation.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:The primary texts to be covered this year are Mor Arlecchino by Marco Martinelli della
Compagnia delle Albe (in English translation), Clash of civilizations over an elevator in Piazza Vittorio by Amara
Lakhous, the feature film Lost in Translation
and extracts from Eva Hoffman’s autobiography, also entitled Lost in translation.Initial Secondary Bibliography: Secondary bibliography will be provided at the start of the
module. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2Convenor:  Ulrich Tiedau
Tutor: various
 Assessment: Three short written reports of 500 words each (weighting 10% each), one essay of 2500 words (weighting 70%), This
is an intermediate module which introduces students to 
the interdisciplinary field of critical heritage studies. Its primary 
focus are the varied uses of the past – as (re)presented in different 
physical sites as well as other material and embodied forms – in the 
present day. The module will focus on a number of key issues and case 
studies which will vary from year to year. However, core issues explored
 in depth are:The
core lectures introduce the broad parameters of the topic/events being studied,
contextualizing debates and primary materials and providing indications of ways
of thinking through materials being studied. Small group seminars are based on
focused analysis and student discussion of close readings of materials and
evaluation of varying kinds of evidence in the context set out by lectures.
Details of which specific topics and/or events may comprise the primary focus
and materials may vary from year to year.  Preliminary BibliographyThere is a vast scholarly literature on the themes covered by this module. The module readings will be made available online and introduce you to the most important contributions on nationalism theory and individual case studies.We will also make use of high-quality online resources like podcasts, web databases, and discussion forums. A comprehensive reading list for preparing your essays will be posted on Moodle.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of 
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the 
academic year. Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2Convenor: Dr Roland-François Lack
Tutor: various
 Assessment: Three written reports of 500 words each (weighting 10% each), one essay of 2500 words (weighting 70%) Theatre: Can
London ever be local? These sessions investigate dramatic representations of
London for theatre audiences within the city and beyond its boundaries. We
discuss the theatrical characterisation of London as a geographical site and as
a concept, and study the momentum of London-based texts and performances that
travel between locations and languages. Students are encouraged to compare
different versions of the set texts in English and in translation in order to
examine the shifting imagery of London for a wide variety of audiences. Is the
metaphorisation of London implicit in its international status as a city? Set
texts: · Brecht, Bertolt. The Threepenny Opera · Pinter, Harold. The Homecoming · Crimp, Martin. The City Background
reading: · Anderman, Gunilla. (2005).
Europe on Stage: Translation and Theatre (London: Oberon) · Harvie, Jen. (2009).
Theatre & the City (Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan) · Sierz, Aleks. (2011).
Rewriting the Nation: British Theatre Today (London: Methuen) Film: In these sessions we look at London as a destination for
tourist cinema, seeing the city through the eyes of filmmakers from Italy,
Finland and Algeria. Students are encouraged to discover the city through the
stranger’s gaze, and to thematise the familiar and the strange in this urban
context. Set viewing: · Blowup
(Michelangelo Antonioni 1966) · I Hired a
Contract Killer (Aki Kaurismaki 1990) · London
River (Rachid Bouchareb 2011) Background reading: · Charlotte Brunsdon, London in Cinema (London: BFI, 2007) · Gail Cunningham & Stephen Barber (eds), London Eyes: Reflections in Image and Text
(Oxford: Berghahn, 2007)Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of 
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the 
academic year.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2Convenor: Dr Roland-François Lack
Tutor: various
 Assessment: Three written reports of 500 words each (weighting 10% each), one essay of 2500 words (weighting 70%) Theatre: Can
London ever be local? These sessions investigate dramatic representations of
London for theatre audiences within the city and beyond its boundaries. We
discuss the theatrical characterisation of London as a geographical site and as
a concept, and study the momentum of London-based texts and performances that
travel between locations and languages. Students are encouraged to compare
different versions of the set texts in English and in translation in order to
examine the shifting imagery of London for a wide variety of audiences. Is the
metaphorisation of London implicit in its international status as a city? Set
texts: · Brecht, Bertolt. The Threepenny Opera · Pinter, Harold. The Homecoming · Crimp, Martin. The City Background
reading: · Anderman, Gunilla. (2005).
Europe on Stage: Translation and Theatre (London: Oberon) · Harvie, Jen. (2009).
Theatre & the City (Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan) · Sierz, Aleks. (2011).
Rewriting the Nation: British Theatre Today (London: Methuen) Film: In these sessions we look at London as a destination for
tourist cinema, seeing the city through the eyes of filmmakers from Italy,
Finland and Algeria. Students are encouraged to discover the city through the
stranger’s gaze, and to thematise the familiar and the strange in this urban
context. Set viewing: · Blowup
(Michelangelo Antonioni 1966) · I Hired a
Contract Killer (Aki Kaurismaki 1990) · London
River (Rachid Bouchareb 2011) Background reading: · Charlotte Brunsdon, London in Cinema (London: BFI, 2007) · Gail Cunningham & Stephen Barber (eds), London Eyes: Reflections in Image and Text
(Oxford: Berghahn, 2007)Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of 
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the 
academic year.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(ELCS6111A is for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars take place at the same times as ELCS6111.)Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1Convenor: Dr Eleanor Chiari
Tutor: various
 Assessment: ELCS6111: Three short written reports of 500 words each (weighting 10% each), one essay of 2500 words (weighting 70%)ELCS6111A: 1 x
essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay (3000 words,
weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to students by
SELCS. This module aims to introduce students to the field of visual
culture by concentrating specifically on the role of visual culture in the
politics of memory around tragic loss. Concentrating on a wide range of
material case studies (from war memorials, to Picasso's Guernica, from the
graphic novel Maus, to museums and demolished prisons, to photographs of
assassinated judges, to the virtual memorials for the victims of
terrorist attacks) the course will follow a chronological structure to examine
the many different visual ways that individual and collective social agents
make sense of violence and loss in popular culture. Preliminary Readings:  Hallam, Elizabeth, and Jennifer Lorna. Hockey. Death, Memory, and Material Culture. Oxford:
Berg, 2001. Howells, Richard, and Joaquim Negreiros. Visual Culture. Cambridge: Polity,
2012.  Mirzoeff, Nicholas. An
Introduction to Visual Culture. London: Routledge, 1999.  Mitchell, W. J. T. Image
Science: Iconology, Visual Culture, and Media Aesthetics. Sturken, Marita. Tangled
Memories: The Vietnam War, the AIDS Epidemic, and the Politics of Remembering.
Berkeley: U of California, 1997. Marita Sturken and Lisa Cartwright. Practices of Looking: An Introduction to Visual
Culture. Oxford: Oxford UP, 2001. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(ELCS6111A is for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars take place at the same times as ELCS6111.)Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1Convenor: Dr Eleanor Chiari
Tutor: various
 Assessment: ELCS6111: Three short written reports of 500 words each (weighting 10% each), one essay of 2500 words (weighting 70%)ELCS6111A: 1 x
essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay (3000 words,
weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to students by
SELCS. This module aims to introduce students to the field of visual
culture by concentrating specifically on the role of visual culture in the
politics of memory around tragic loss. Concentrating on a wide range of
material case studies (from war memorials, to Picasso's Guernica, from the
graphic novel Maus, to museums and demolished prisons, to photographs of
assassinated judges, to the virtual memorials for the victims of
terrorist attacks) the course will follow a chronological structure to examine
the many different visual ways that individual and collective social agents
make sense of violence and loss in popular culture. Preliminary Readings:  Hallam, Elizabeth, and Jennifer Lorna. Hockey. Death, Memory, and Material Culture. Oxford:
Berg, 2001. Howells, Richard, and Joaquim Negreiros. Visual Culture. Cambridge: Polity,
2012.  Mirzoeff, Nicholas. An
Introduction to Visual Culture. London: Routledge, 1999.  Mitchell, W. J. T. Image
Science: Iconology, Visual Culture, and Media Aesthetics. Sturken, Marita. Tangled
Memories: The Vietnam War, the AIDS Epidemic, and the Politics of Remembering.
Berkeley: U of California, 1997. Marita Sturken and Lisa Cartwright. Practices of Looking: An Introduction to Visual
Culture. Oxford: Oxford UP, 2001. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 Terms 1 & 2:Term 1:Term 2:Each module comprises 20 hours of tuition - 10 hours of 
lectures and 10 hours of seminar - taught usually either in Term 1 or 
Term 2, and is worth 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS.Most 
modules follow one of SELCS's standard forms of assessment.Please contact Karin and Jo at selcs.undergraduate@ucl.ac.uk for details. Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (Level 4)Total Learning Hours: 150Terms: Full YearConvenor: Professor Stephanie BirdTutor: various
Assessment: one desk three-hour written examination (weighting 100%) This module introduces
students to aspects of literary texts across periods from the Medieval through
to the modern. It provides insight into a range of genres and literary
cultures, including verse, drama, essays and prose fiction. We’ll be reading
and discussing works by writers who have been central to European culture, such
as Diderot’s The Nun, Goethe’s Faust Part 1 and Nooteboom’s Rituals.
 The module is taught in
both Term 1 and Term 2 in order to facilitate coverage of multiple periods and
to allow students to digest and reflect on reading materials over a longer
period of time than is usually the case with first year modules. Core lectures
introduce the text/s while small group seminars focus on close reading of
specific short texts in the contexts set out by lectures. All primary texts
will be available in English translation but may also be read in original
versions. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (Level 4)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2
Convenor: Dr Claire ThomsonTutors: variousAssessment: 1 x sequence analysis (weighting 35%, 1500 words), 1 x essay
(weighting 65%, 2500 words) This is a First Year foundational module which
introduces students to aspects of Film Studies. In the first half of the term,
the weekly core lectures provide a historical perspective on the aesthetic and technological
building blocks of film. Lectures in the second half of the term offer an
overview of cinema institutions and their impact on filmmaking. The weekly
seminars consolidate lecture topics and develop skills in film analysis, such
as critical sequence analysis (aspects such as editing, mise-en-scène, sound, etc).
Students are required to view a specified selection of films in their own time,
and these case studies provide a concrete basis for lecture and seminar
discussion.  All primary materials will be available with
English subtitles but may also be viewed in original versions. Set viewings,
weekly preparatory reading, and other links will be available via the module’s
moodle page from Summer 2017.In preparation for the module, students are
encouraged to read one or more of the following:David Bordwell, Kristin Thompson and Jeff
Smith, Film Art: An Introduction, New York: McGraw-Hill, 2017 (this is
the 11th edition of this book; earlier editions are also fine).Marilyn Fabe, Closely Watched Films: An
Introduction to the Art of Narrative Film Technique, Berkeley: University
of California Press, 2004.James Monaco, How to Read a Film: Movies,
Media, and Beyond. Art, Technology, Language, History, Theory (3rd
edition), Oxford, New York: Oxford University Press, 2009.Kristin Thompson and David Bordwell, Film
History: An Introduction, Boston and London: McGraw-Hill, 2010 (this is the
3rd edition of this book; earlier editions are also fine).Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of 
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the 
academic year.  Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (Level 4)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2Convenor: Dr Carlotta Ferrara degli UbertiTutor: various
 Assessment: 3 x short written
reports (weighting 10% each, 500 words each), 1 x essay (weighting 70%, 2500 words),  This is a first year foundational module which introduces
students to aspects of studying European history from the Protestant Reformation
to present days. The core lectures introduce key historical topics - the
relationship between religion and politics; sovereignty and citizenship;
nationalism; colonialism - providing the major contextual parameters for each
topic and outlining the contours of the relevant historiographical debate. The
small group seminars are based on focused analysis of specific aspects of
historical evidence in the contexts set out by lectures. The seminar aims to
aid students to critically evaluate different kinds of evidence (documents,
academic argument, testimonials etc) and develop skills of historical and
contextual analysis. All materials will be available in English or English
translation but may also be read in the original language.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time
of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (Level 4)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2Convenor: Dr Carlotta Ferrara degli UbertiTutor: various
 Assessment: 3 x short written
reports (weighting 10% each, 500 words each), 1 x essay (weighting 70%, 2500 words),  This is a first year foundational module which introduces
students to aspects of studying European history from the Protestant Reformation
to present days. The core lectures introduce key historical topics - the
relationship between religion and politics; sovereignty and citizenship;
nationalism; colonialism - providing the major contextual parameters for each
topic and outlining the contours of the relevant historiographical debate. The
small group seminars are based on focused analysis of specific aspects of
historical evidence in the contexts set out by lectures. The seminar aims to
aid students to critically evaluate different kinds of evidence (documents,
academic argument, testimonials etc) and develop skills of historical and
contextual analysis. All materials will be available in English or English
translation but may also be read in the original language.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time
of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(ELCS1004A is for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars take place at the same times as ELCS1004A.)Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (Level 4)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1Convenor: Christine SasTutor: various Assessment: ELCS1004: 1 x essay (weighting 50%, 2000 words), series of language learning tasks (weighting 50%)ELCS1004A: 1 x
essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay (3000 words,
weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to students by
SELCS.This is a First Year foundational module which introduces students to aspects of the study of language and introductory linguistics, from a social and learner's perspective. Topics include critical discussions of the concepts of language and their formal study, the relationship between language and culture, society and the mind.The lectures will explore and explain concepts and theories, and the small group seminars will offer room for discussion, case studies and practical tasks.All primary
materials will be available in English or English translation but may also be
read in the original language. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(ELCS1004A is for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars take place at the same times as ELCS1004A.)Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (Level 4)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1Convenor: Christine SasTutor: various Assessment: ELCS1004: 1 x essay (weighting 50%, 2000 words), series of language learning tasks (weighting 50%)ELCS1004A: 1 x
essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay (3000 words,
weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to students by
SELCS.This is a First Year foundational module which introduces students to aspects of the study of language and introductory linguistics, from a social and learner's perspective. Topics include critical discussions of the concepts of language and their formal study, the relationship between language and culture, society and the mind.The lectures will explore and explain concepts and theories, and the small group seminars will offer room for discussion, case studies and practical tasks.All primary
materials will be available in English or English translation but may also be
read in the original language. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Students from other departments at UCL are welcome to request to take SELCS modules on the understanding that:•   They have permission from their home department at UCL to take a module within SELCS•   There is space on the module•   There are no timetable clashes with their other modules•   Students meet any prerequisites required by individual modules (please check module descriptions for more information) When allocating modules, we give priority to SELCS students, therefore, we will aim to confirm whether you have secured your place on requested modules by the end of Induction week.  We advise that you have reserve options in place in case it 
is not possible for us to allocate you to requested SELCS modules.  If you need to request changes once teaching has started, please contact the relevant administrators (as listed above).To make module changes on Portico, please contact your main department.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on 
offer and talk to members of academic staff. These events can be 
extremely valuable in helping you make an informed choice about what to study. The Open Days offer a variety of activities, 
including admissions talks, general talks on topics such as 
accommodation, finance and careers. There are also accommodation tours, 
faculty and information fairs, taster sessions, and much more.  The Open Days for 2017 are now finished, but you can find watch videos from the SELCS Subject talks below.You can find out more information about Open Days and campus visits here:
 

   Read more and register to attend UCL Open Days

 
Staff will also be representing SELCS at UCL's postgraduate Open Day in the autumn (date to be confirmed).
 

   Read more and register to attend UCL Open Days

 
 Watch our films from one of UCL's undergraduate open days in June this year to get a feel for what happens on the day.  Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 The flexible programme allows students to enhance their 
knowledge of the language of their choice, while offering the 
opportunity to take courses in history, 
literature and culture. The MA may be taken over one year full-time or 
two years 
part-time via different language pathways. Overview of Modules 2017/18 (including ELCS Advanced and Portugese modules)SELCS staff also provide the teaching across a range of 
interdisciplinary programmes available in SELCS or centres within the 
Faculty of Arts and Humanities.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				2017-2018Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				ELCSGG01 - Language, Culture and HistoryELCSG099 - Dissertation taught pathway (60 credits)ELCSG098 - Dissertation research pathway (90 credits)DUTCG007 - Contemporary History, Society and Culture of the Low CountriesDUTCG903 - Project in DutchDUTCG401 - Dutch Language 3DUTCG504 - Advanced Translation from Dutch to EnglishDUTCG202 - Making Modern Dutch LiteratureFRENGT01 - Advanced Translation FRENGT03 - Translation into French (Advanced)FRENGF03 - The French New Wave (Cahier Cinema) FRENG105 - Dominating Texts: Literary Power Relations in 20th Century French LiteratureFRENG051 - Discourses of EqualityFRENG115 - Legendary Histories (Medieval French Literature)FRENG030 - Culture of AIDS in France: History, Policy and RepresentationFRENG036 - Writing the Self in Post-war France: Aspects of Life-Writing GERMG008 - Wolfram's Parzival GERMG012 - Austrian Literature IGERMG016 - Recording Revolt: 1967 in Germany and AfterGERMG023 - Modern German Art: A Cultural HistoryGERMG028 - Reading Modern NovelsGERMG030 - Language, Power, Ideology GERMG032 - Translation from and into GermanGERMG033 - Discussion and EssayGERMG055 - German Literature and PsychologyGERMG144 - Black GermanyGERMG145 - SurveillanceGERMG146 - EmpathySPANG011A - The Latin American Cinematic TraditionSPANG013A/SPANG028 - Sex and the Body in Early Modern Europe SPANG019 - Advanced Translation from and into Spanish SPANG031 - The City in Latin American CultureSPANGF02 - New Argentine CinemasSPANG408 - The Battle for Memory in Contemporary Spanish Novel: Part 1, The Transition to DemocracySPANG115 - The Literary World of Jorge Luis Borges Part 2 SPANG117 - The Works of Cervantes Part ISPANG415 - Reading and Writing Spanish Microfiction PORTG001 - Advanced Translation from and into PortuguesePORTG420 - Portugal and its Empire in the 20th Century: Trajectories and MemoriesPORTG421 - Short Fiction and the Making of Modern BrazilITALG019 - Advanced Translation from and into Italian FILMG012 - Genre in Italian CinemaITALG026 - Marriage & Divorce Italian Style (1861-1975)ITALG027 - Identity and Perfromance in Renaissance Italy ITALG909 - Italian Contemporary NovelITALG102 - Nation, Culture and Society in Italy (1860-1915)SCANG001 - Advanced Translation (Scandinavian into English)SCANG013 - Introduction to Old NorseSCANG014 - Crime and Small Communities in Nordic Literature SCANGF05 - Nordic Cinema: Contextualising Dreyer, Bergman and Dogme 95SCANGM15 - Advanced Old NorseSCANG310 - Politics and Society in the Nordic Region  ELCSG004 - Metamorphosis: The Limits of the Human ELCSG005 - Organised Crime: Gangster in Life and ArtELCSG012 - Sequential Art as a Form of Engagement ELCSG013 - Language and IdeologyELCSG018 - Writing ShameELCSG023 - Men on the Moon: Cosmic Voyages in the Early Modern PeriodELCSG030 - Black EuropeRegister your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Code: ELCSGG01Value: 30 creditsTutor: Various (see below) Convenor: Professor Mairéad Hanrahan Teaching structure: Two hour seminar for 10 weeks Assessment:  Two 3,000 words essays (first essay 40% and second essay 60%) Module Description:   This core course is a requirement on all the language pathways of the MA in Language, Culture and History. In weeks 6-10 you research one of the following two topics:   In weeks 12-16 you research one of the following two topics: These seminars may focus particularly on the culture, 
history and literature of one or two of the languages taught in this MA.
 For their assessment, students will have the opportunity to consider 
the topic involved as it applies to the language of their choice: 
Catalan, Danish, Dutch, French, Galician, German, Icelandic, Italian, 
Norwegian, Portuguese, Spanish, Swedish. ComedyThis part of the course will address the (huge) question of
the cultural significance of comedy and laughter with a reference to a number
of highly influential theories, literary texts and comic performances from the
Middle Ages to the present day; many of these will be chosen by me (SC) but
some will also be chosen by course participants. Specific themes are likely to
include: Bergson’s canonical theory of laughter; the Italian Renaissance as a
historical case-study; jokes (Freud) and stand-up comedy; laughter and religion
(controversies past and present); comedy and history.Please note: This seminar exceptionally will run 11-1 Wednesdays.   Queer(y)ing Sexuality This
 section of the course will trace a historical outline of the 
development of queer politics and cultures in relation to theories of 
the regulation of sexuality in the late 20th century. The 
main theoretical support for this section of the course will be the work
 of Michel Foucault. Pivotal in this historical trajectory will be the 
emergence of, and responses to, HIV/AIDS as a pressing medical, cultural
 and political pandemic. Contextualising HIV and discourses of AIDS in 
relation to queer allows us to pose questions to: the construction of 
sexuality in late modernity; issues of subjectivity and identity; links 
between cultural analysis and political activism, and; the culturally 
specific ways in which different societies construct and respond to the 
epidemic. Particular attention will also be paid to the specifically 
linguistic and narrative dimensions of HIV/AIDS. We will trace the 
linguistic history of HIV/AIDS and think about how our own memories of 
the condition reveal recurring narrative threads which help us construct
 our understanding of HIV/AIDS. The
 first two sessions of the course will outline the historical and 
theoretical terrain of queer theory and AIDS from c 1981 to the present.
 In the third and fourth sessions we will turn our attention to cultural
 representations which engage with this. We will read a French novel/autofiction from 1990 (Hervé Guibert’s To the Friend Who Did Not Save My Life)
 and ask questions about the ways in which a literary text poses 
questions about memory and commemoration, testimony and loss. We will 
also discuss 2 films (Philadelphia [USA, 1993] and The Witnesses [France, 2007]) which engage, very differently, with representations of AIDS and the critical interplay of memory and death.Pastoral
and Green Culture These seminars explore critically how the representation of green places
(woods, gardens, wildernesses) and ‘natural’ environments affects mood, style,
concerns, and language in different literary genres and art forms. Pastoral has
historically functioned as a complex, cross-disciplinary mode and is implicitly
set in comparison with urban reality and culture. Seminars will explore the
pastoral’s self-conscious concern with ideas of civilization, aesthetic
representations of man’s relationship with nature, and collective vs inner
identity, and the borders between human and non-human, nature and artifice.
Discussion topics will include the political and sociological implications of
pastoral (and anti-pastoral), the endurance and transformations of associated
myths of the Golden Age, Arcadia and Eden in connection with historical
‘reality’, and environmental criticism. These will be examined by looking at
critical writings for example by Leo Marx, Paul Alpers, and Laurence Buell
alongside various primary sources. The
Past  This
set of seminars will examine the importance of the historical past, in
particular the Middle Ages, in 19th and 20th century European politics, literature and thought. Themes
explored include national identity, language policy, collection of folklore, public
commemorations and 'national' literature. The seminars will focus on specific
texts, artefacts, and images, in addition to the relevant secondary readings.
Case studies from various parts of Europe will be examined, although there will
be particular emphasis on Germany and Scandinavia.  Moodle:
If you are a prospective student interested in viewing the Moodle page as a guest, please contact the Postgraduate Officer with your request. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.
                                 
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Code: ELCSG098Value: 90 creditsThe MA Research Dissertation, the cornerstone of the MA in
Language, Culture and Society (Research), should be 18,000 words
long, written in English or one of the foreign languages taught in the School
of European Languages, Culture and Society,  and submitted at the end of
the programme (beginning of September).In this essay the student will be expected to
investigate a research question in considerable depth, demonstrate superior
research skills, and show a highly advanced level of independent thought. The
Research Dissertation will be supervised by a member of the School of
European Languages, Culture and Society on a literary or historical or cultural
topic agreed with the supervisor and, if appropriate, the SELCS Graduate Tutor.The dissertation will normally focus on an analysis of the literature, history
and/or culture deriving from one or a selection of those societies where the
following twelve languages are spoken: Catalan, Danish, Dutch, French,
Galician, German, Icelandic, Italian, Norwegian, Portuguese, Spanish and
Swedish.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Code: ELCSG099Value: 60 creditsThe MA dissertation, the copestone of the MA in Language, 
Culture and Society, should be 12,000 words long, written in English or 
one of the foreign languages taught in the School of European Languages,
 Culture and Society, and submitted at the end of the programme (beginning of 
September).In their dissertations the student are expected to 
investigate a research question in considerable depth, demonstrate good 
research skills and show an independence of thought. Dissertation are 
supervised by a School teaching staff and should focus on a literary or 
historical or cultural topic agreed with the supervisor and, if 
appropriate, the SELCS Graduate Tutor.Dissertations normally focus on an analysis of the 
literature, history or culture associated with the twelve languages 
taught in the School: Catalan, Danish, Dutch, French, Galician, German, 
Icelandic, Italian, Norwegian, Portuguese, Spanish and Swedish.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Code: FRENGT01Value: 30 creditsTutor: Professor Andy LeakAssessment: one take-home paper (100%). Module Description:
 The module focuses on the specific skill of 
translating French literary texts into English. It aims to develop 
skills both in critical reading and in interpretation, and an advanced 
understanding of the translation process. Teaching takes the form of 
practical translation and of written commentary on the problems of 
translation encountered. Whilst the emphasis is on the practical, 
students will also be acquiring a basic understanding of theories of 
translation as well as the technical vocabulary appropriate to the area.
 To this end, students will be required to purchase the Hervey and 
Higgins text listed below.Places on this module 
are limited and acceptance is not automatic. Students interested in 
registering for it will need to attend a short interview with the module
 tutor during Registration Week (time and place to be notified).There will be a compulsory pre-meeting for all students
wishing to take FRENGT01 (Advanced Literary Translation) on Thursday 28th at
2.00pm in Rm 255 French Dept (1-4 Malet Place). If you cannot make the meeting, plesase contact Professor Leak directly. 
Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Code: FRENGT03Value: 30 unitsTutor: Marie FournierAssessment: one take-home paper (50%) and one 3 hours desk exam (50%). The take-home paper consists of an annotated translation of a literary or journalistic text (1500-2000 words). The 3-hour exam consists of selections of advanced unseen translation exercises (including translation of a more technical nature) of 400 words. Students are allowed to use any single-volume dictionary for the desk exam, meaning that it could be monolingual or bilingual - it is up to the student.This course will consist of 1-hour weekly seminars over two terms and it will be taught in French. The instruction will focus both on practical and theoretical aspects of translation into French. The course will be accompanied by a Moodle Course.This module aims to:- equip students with practical translation competence and with a theoretical grounding on which to base their practice- enable students to develop effective and adaptable translation strategies- foster the development of linguistic competence in French at an advanced level (comprehension of and ability to use and manipulate grammatical, lexical and idiomatic structures)- develop sensitivity to and understanding of the intercultural aspect involved in the translation processModule Description: This MA course consists of a variety of practical translation exercises from English into French covering a range of different texts and registers; the material includes literary, journalistic, advertising copy, ‘officalese’ and semi-technical texts. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: TBAPlease note: This
module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may
be made prior to the start of the academic year.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab. 
				ELCSGG01 - Language, Culture and HistoryELCSG099 - Dissertation taught pathway (60 credits)ELCSG098 - Dissertation research pathway (90 credits)DUTCG007 - Contemporary History, Society and Culture of the Low CountriesDUTCG903 - Project in DutchDUTCG401 - Dutch Language 3DUTCG504 - Advanced Translation from Dutch to EnglishDUTCG202 - Making Modern Dutch LiteratureFRENGT01 - Advanced Translation FRENGT03 - Translation into French (Advanced)FRENGF03 - The French New Wave (Cahier Cinema) FRENG105 - Dominating Texts: Literary Power Relations in 20th Century French LiteratureFRENG051 - Discourses of EqualityFRENG115 - Legendary Histories (Medieval French Literature)FRENG030 - Culture of AIDS in France: History, Policy and RepresentationFRENG036 - Writing the Self in Post-war France: Aspects of Life-Writing GERMG008 - Wolfram's Parzival GERMG012 - Austrian Literature IGERMG016 - Recording Revolt: 1967 in Germany and AfterGERMG023 - Modern German Art: A Cultural HistoryGERMG028 - Reading Modern NovelsGERMG030 - Language, Power, Ideology GERMG032 - Translation from and into GermanGERMG033 - Discussion and EssayGERMG055 - German Literature and PsychologyGERMG144 - Black GermanyGERMG145 - SurveillanceGERMG146 - EmpathySPANG011A - The Latin American Cinematic TraditionSPANG013A/SPANG028 - Sex and the Body in Early Modern Europe SPANG019 - Advanced Translation from and into Spanish SPANG031 - The City in Latin American CultureSPANGF02 - New Argentine CinemasSPANG408 - The Battle for Memory in Contemporary Spanish Novel: Part 1, The Transition to DemocracySPANG115 - The Literary World of Jorge Luis Borges Part 2 SPANG117 - The Works of Cervantes Part ISPANG415 - Reading and Writing Spanish Microfiction PORTG001 - Advanced Translation from and into PortuguesePORTG420 - Portugal and its Empire in the 20th Century: Trajectories and MemoriesPORTG421 - Short Fiction and the Making of Modern BrazilITALG019 - Advanced Translation from and into Italian FILMG012 - Genre in Italian CinemaITALG026 - Marriage & Divorce Italian Style (1861-1975)ITALG027 - Identity and Perfromance in Renaissance Italy ITALG909 - Italian Contemporary NovelITALG102 - Nation, Culture and Society in Italy (1860-1915)SCANG001 - Advanced Translation (Scandinavian into English)SCANG013 - Introduction to Old NorseSCANG014 - Crime and Small Communities in Nordic Literature SCANGF05 - Nordic Cinema: Contextualising Dreyer, Bergman and Dogme 95SCANGM15 - Advanced Old NorseSCANG310 - Politics and Society in the Nordic Region  ELCSG004 - Metamorphosis: The Limits of the Human ELCSG005 - Organised Crime: Gangster in Life and ArtELCSG012 - Sequential Art as a Form of Engagement ELCSG013 - Language and IdeologyELCSG018 - Writing ShameELCSG023 - Men on the Moon: Cosmic Voyages in the Early Modern PeriodELCSG030 - Black EuropeRegister your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.
                           
				Value: 30 creditsTutor: Dr Cristina MassaccesiTeaching structure: Teaching will take the form of practical translation and of written commentary on the problems of translation encountered. Assessment: One take-home paper (100%).Module Description:This module will focus on the specific skills of translating texts from 
and into Italian. During the module, the students will have the chance 
to work on various kinds of material, such as literary, cinematographic 
(i.e. subtitles and dubbing) and journalistic texts. The module will 
target the development of skills both in critical reading and in 
interpretation, and it will promote an advanced understanding of the 
translation process. Whilst the emphasis will be on the practical 
aspects of translating and adapting a text, students will also be 
acquiring a basic understanding of theories of translation as well as 
the technical vocabulary appropriate to the area.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:
The study material will be provided to the students via Moodle.
    Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest
                   
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 creditsTutor: Dr Claire ThomsonTeaching structure: Mondays 14.00-18.00: includes two-hour seminar and two-hour screening.Assessment: 1 essay of 5,000 words.Module Description:This module aims to contextualise the work of the 
internationally - celebrated colossi of Scandinavian cinema Carl Th 
Dreyer, Ingmar Bergman and Dogme 95. We will survey cinema in the Nordic
 region by means of textual and contextual study of films which 
exemplify crucial figures, themes and developments in the 'national' 
cinemas of Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden. Arguably, film 
is the cultural site where a 'Nordic' identity can best be discerned: 
commentary couched in themes of 'naitional' cinema is rendered less than
 satisfying by an economic strategy of co-production, the (allegedly) 
mutually-comprehensible linguistic situation in the region, and the 
shared social imaginary of the welfare society. The module will explore 
two sets of issues which are fundamental to Nordic cinema in general and
 which feed into the work of Dreyer, Bergman and the Danish Dogme 
brethren in particular. Firstly, the role of cinema in the negotiation 
of the social imaginary we will consider how film navigates issues that 
have been fundamental to Nordic art and culture in the twentieth 
century, such as the relationship between the individual and the 
collective, the impact of modernity on community and nature, and the 
maintenance of social equality and welfare. Secondly, the impact of 
material and environmental conditions of filmmaking in the region: 
landscape, language, and the economics of culture and welfare.No
 knowledge of a Scandinavian language is required, all films have 
English subtitles, and there is plenty of criticism in English and other
 major languages.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please contact the module tutor for a detailed module outline and reading list.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.
   				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 creditsTerm: Term 2Tutor:  Dr Deborah MartinAssessment: one 6,000 word essay Module Description:   The module examines the new currents of filmmaking emerging in Argentina
since the mid-1990s, some of which have been considered under the ‘New Argentine Cinema’ label. The ‘New
Argentine Cinema’ – of which Pizza,
birra, faso (Caetano and Stagnoaro, 1997)  is often said to be one of
the first works – has been characterised by its refusal to provide any explicit
comment on politics, its focus on the margins (social and geographical), and on
‘small stories’, rather than ones which try to represent the nation’s totality.
In addition these films tend to use a pared-down, neo-realist or documentary look
as an aesthetic response to the neoliberal context of the 1990s and the
socio-economic crisis of 2001. We will address the transformations and
developments in recent Argentine Cinema, including important genre responses to
neoliberalism and economic crisis such as Nine
Queens (Bielinsky, 2000) and the emergence of other ‘new’ themes and bodies
of work, such as the recent insistent focus on gender and sexuality in the work
of women filmmakers (Martel, Puenzo and Solomonoff). Set texts    Initial general bibliographyPlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 creditsTern: Term 1Tutor: Professor Stephen HartAssessment: one assessed 6,000 word essay (100%). Module description:This course will focus on the major
trends within Latin American cinema from 2000 until the present day. The main
emphasis of this course involves a study of film as film, including its mode of
expression, its cinematography and its vision, with special reference to the
Digital Turn.      Bibliography
Aguilar, Gonzalo, New Argentine Film: Other Worlds (New
York: Palgrave, 2008).Andermann, New Argentine Cinema (London: I.B.
Tauris, 2012).Ashcroft, Bill,
Gareth Griffiths and Helen Tiffin (eds), The
Post-Colonial Studies Reader (London: Routledge, 1995).Brown, William, Supercinema: Film-Philosophy for the Digital
Age (Oxford: Berghahn, 2013).Burton, Julianne, Cinema and Social Change in Latin America:
Conversations with Filmmakers (Austin, TX: U of Texas P, 1986).Delgado, Maria,
Stephen Hart and Randal Johnson (eds), The
Companion to Latin American Film (Malden, MA: Wiley, 2017).Deleuze, Gilles, Cinema 2 ((London: The Athlone Press,
2009).Díaz López, Marina,
and Alberto Elena (eds), The Cinema of
Latin America (London: Wallflower, 2003).Foster, David William, Contemporary Argentine Cinema (Columbia: University of Missouri
Press, 1992). Hart, Stephen, A Companion to Latin American Film
(Ipswich: Boydell and Brewer, 2004).Hart, Stephen, Latin American Film (London: Reaktion,
2010).Hart, Stephen,M.,
‘Hispanism’s Digital Turn’, Bulletin of
Spanish Studies, XCII. 3 (2015), 439-51.Hayward, Susan, Key Concepts in Cinema Studies (London:
Routledge, 1996).Johnson, Randall, and
Robert Stam, Brazilian Cinema (East
Brunswick, NJ: Associated University Presses, 1982). King, John, Latin American Reels: A History of Latin
American Cinema (London: Verso, 2000), 2nd ed.Lehman, Peter and
William Luhr, Thinking about Movies
(Oxford: Blackwell, 2003).Miller, Toby and
Robert Stam (eds), A Companion to Film
Theory (Oxford: Blackwell, 2004). Mora, Carl J. Mexican
Cinema: Reflections of a Society
1896-1980 (Berkeley: University of California Press, 1982).Muir, Stephanie, Studying City of God (Leighton Buzzard:
Auteur, 2008).Nagib, Lúcia, The New Brazilian Film (London: Tauris,
2003).Page, Joanna, Crisis and Capitalism in Contemporary
Argentine Cinema (Durham, NC, and London: Duke University Press, 2009).Paranaguá, Paulo Antonio, O Cinema
na América Latina: longe de Deus e perto de Hollywood (São Paolo: L&PM
Editores, 1984).Pick, Zuzana, The New Latin American Cinema: A Continental
Project (Austin, TX: University of Texas Press, 1993).Shaw, Deborah, Contemporary Cinema of Latin America: 10 Key
Films (London: Continuum, 2003).Shaw, Deborah, The Three Amigos (Manchester: Manchester
University Press, 2013).Smith, Paul Julian, Amores perros (London: BFI, 2003).Stam, Robert, Film Theory: An Introduction (Oxford:
Blackwell, 2000). Tomkins, Cynthia, Experimental Latin American Cinema (Austin,
TX: University of Texas Press, 2013).Torrents, Nissa, and
John King (eds), The Garden of Forking
Paths: Argentine Cinema (London: BFI, 1988). Vieira, Else (ed.), City
of God in Several Voices (Nottingham: CCCP, 2005).Young, Robert, Postcolonialism: an Historical Introduction (Oxford: Blackwell,
2001).Wood, Jason, The Faber Book of Mexican Cinema (London: Faber, 2006).  Week 1 – FILM
  STUDIEDAlejando
  González Iñárritu, Amores perros
  (Love’s a Bitch, 2000)Week 2 – FILM
  STUDIEDFernando
  Meirelles, Cidade de Deus (City of
  God, 2002)Week 3 – FILM STUDIED Alejandro
  González Iñárritu, Babel (2006)Week 4 – FILM
  STUDIED Lucrecia Martel, La
  mujer sin cabeza  (The Headless
  Woman, 2008)Week 5 – FILM STUDIED Claudia Llosa, La teta asustada (Milk of Sorrow,
  2009)Week 6 – FILM
  STUDIED Juan José Campanella, El secreto de sus ojos (The Secret in Their Eyes, 2009)Week 7 – FILM
  STUDIEDCarlos
  Reygadas, Pax tenebras lux  (2012)Week 8 – FILM
  STUDIED Alfonso Cuarón, Gravity (2013)Week 9 – FILM
  STUDIED Alejando
  González Iñárritu, Birdman (2014)Week 10 – FILM STUDIED Pablo Larraín, Neruda (2016)   Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Code: SPANG013AValue: 30 credits versionAssessment: 6,000 word essay (100%)Code: SPANG028Value: 15 credits versionAssessment: 4,000 word essay (100%)Tutor: Dr Alexander SamsonTerm: Term 1Teaching structureModule Description:This module will introduce topics in the history of 
sexuality and analyse the emergence of subjectivity in the early modern 
period through a range of literary, historical and dramatic texts, as 
well as painting. Within a theoretical framework drawing on Lacqueur, 
Bahktin, Greenblatt, Foucault and Barker we will examine areas from 
prostitution, gender, witchcraft, exorcism, and madness to issues 
concerned with the representation of the self and body in love, sickness
 and death.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:In the first instance you should look at a selection of the
 material for the first two sessions on 'Theoretical Concepts in the 
History of Sexuality', perhaps reading extracts from Bahktin, Foucault, 
Laqueur or Maclean, then read Rojas' La Celestina in an edition by Severin either in Spanish or Mabbe's translation. Please note: This
module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may
be made prior to the start of the academic year.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Code: SPANG019Value: 30 creditsCourse Convenor: Dr Mazal OakninTutors: Dr Mazal Oaknin, Dr Guadalupe GerardiTeaching structure: Workshops and seminarsAssessment: Students are assessed by 
coursework (50%) and an unseen 3-hour desk exam (50%). The coursework 
consists of a translation and commentary of a literary, cultural or 
historical text (5,000 words). Module Description:
The MA module in Advanced Translation from and into Spanish
 consists of practical translation exercises covering a wide range 
of texts and registers, including technical Spanish. It aims to develop 
linguistic and interpretative skills to a highly advanced level as well 
as to enhance the understanding of the translation process itself.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Sorry, this Silva Document is not viewable.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 Read what our students have to say about their experiences of studying at SELCS and their time spent living and studying abroad as part of their Programmes. "I learned so much about how language and culture intertwine and this knowledge is now inextricably part of the way I view the world. The highlight was definitely my year abroad.""I chose UCL after falling in love with London. There is no other university in the city, let alone the UK, which captured its vibrant, multi-cultural and dynamic atmosphere as well as UCL."Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Students can choose from a vast range of degrees and specialisms with the School of European Languages, Culture and Society at UCL, many of which are not available at other institutions. 
SELCS has 6
departments with 11 languages to choose from, as well as options to study combination degrees with
SSEES (School of Slavonic and Eastern European Studies), SOAS (School of
Oriental and African Studies) and other departments at UCL. Find out more about our degree programmes below or by language/department.We offer single language degrees including BA French,
BA Spanish and Latin American Studies, BA German, BA Italian, BA Dutch, BA
Scandinavian Studies, BA Icelandic. We also offer a range of specialist degrees such BA Viking and Old Norse Studies.The BA Modern Languages enables you to combine the study of two languages and
their respective cultures. You can choose from two languages within SELCS, or one in SELCS
and one from other UCL departments or our partner institutions. The BA Modern Language Plus offers you the ability to combine the study of your
chosen language with a range of other subjects across UCL. Options include English, Film, Management, Philosophy amongst others. We also offer degrees in German or Scandinavian Studies and History, which are offered as separate programmes.This is a
degree programme that draws on the departmental expertise across SELCS, and
allows you to combine the study of up to three languages with your own choice
of cultural options in related courses. The BA Comparative Literature affirms UCL’s role as a global leader in
the diverse and thriving field of literary and cultural studies, building on the strength of
well-established departmental programmes, and on a unique range of
language-specific degrees.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Find out more about our Undergraduate Programmes, including details on applications and our year abroad.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The BA Comparative Literature affirms UCL’s role as a global leader in
the diverse and thriving field of literary and cultural studies, building on the strength of
well-established departmental programmes, and on a unique range of
language-specific degrees.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.Prior to enrolment, students will choose a foreign language (1.0cu), which they will study either ab initio or at a more advanced level. Language options can be chosen, subject to availability, from:Core compulsory
modules in your main language and in your minor language as well as
the Language, Culture and Representation core module.Choose from a
range of first-year cultural, literature, history, film or linguistic
modules from your main language department.Choose from a
range of first-year ELCS modules.  
Core compulsory
modules in your chosen languages. You may choose to continue your
main language or switch your minor and major languages subject to
availability and approval.Choose from a
range of intermediate cultural, literature, history, film or
linguistic modules from your main language department.Choose a
combination from a range of intermediate modules in culture,
literature, history, film and linguistics from your language
departments or ELCS modules and the specialist Language and Culture
module. 
Year Three is the Year Abroad, this
is spent in a country where your chosen language is spoken.There are two possible paths for final-year students.They may continue the study of their first language of choice at a more advanced level (1.0 course units). Alternatively, students may study a different foreign language, at an advanced level (1.0 course units). This second foreign language may be a language studied during the year abroad.In addition, students take 0.5cu of relevant culture-specific content courses, and 0.5cu of any other relevant content courses.Language courses are offered by SELCS or SSEES, where appropriate. Students will be admitted to these courses only if they have mastered the second foreign language at the required level. Language tests will be used to assess levels of proficiency. The second foreign language will be studied conjointly with 0.5cu of relevant culture-specific content courses, and 0.5cu of any other relevant content courses.Finalists may also choose to replace 1.0cu of language with 1.0cu of culture-specific content courses, subject to permission from the Programme Director. In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.Prior to enrolment, students will choose a foreign language (1.0cu), which they will study either ab initio or at a more advanced level. Language options can be chosen, subject to availability, from:Core compulsory
modules in your language  as well as
the Comparative Literature core modules.Choose from a
range of first-year comparative literature modules. All texts will be available in English or in English translation, as appropriate, but may be read in the original language.Choose from a range of  literature related
modules from your language department subject to availability.Choose from a
range of first-year ELCS modules.  
Core compulsory
modules in your chosen language as well as
the Comparative Literature core modules. Choose 
from a
range of intermediate comparative literature modules. All texts will be 
available in English or in English translation, as appropriate, but may 
be read in the original language.Choose from a range of  literature related
modules from your language department subject to availability.Choose from a
range of intermediate ELCS modules.  
Advanced modules in your chosen language (students will only be admitted to these courses if they have mastered the required language level - language placement tests will be used to assess proficiency).Choose a
combination from a range of comparative literature and literature related modules.For entry requirements with international and other UK qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective Student website. For
 entry requirements with international and other UK qualifications
 accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective Student website.The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications and test providers can be found on our English language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International Education.These entrance requirements refer to the September 2018 intake, and may be subject to revision for 2019. This page will be updated in September 2018 with subject-specific entrance requirements for students planning to commence their degrees in September 2019.On graduation from this programme you can expect to have excellent oral and written language skills and breadth and depth of cultural knowledge. This degree cultivates numerous transferable skills, including the ability to organise your time and work independently, think critically, and analyse and present information.The first cohort of students admitted to the BA Comparative Literature are due to graduate after 2018. Therefore information about career destinations for students on this programme is not yet available. Please see first destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) from the other School of European Langauges, Culture and Society degrees at UCL for a selection of representative careers. UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In assessing your application we are looking for evidence of your interest in and aptitude for language learning, as well as your interest in literature, film, art and other cultural subjects. Please state your chosen main language, and, if decided, your second language in the 'further details' section of the UCAS form.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation make you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day where you can experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability as required.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.Undergraduate Admissions Officerselcs.admissions@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 3096Programme Directorf.mussgnug@ucl.ac.ukDepartmental Administratora.bromwich@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 0382The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2017/18 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2018 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.    £9,250 (2017/18 - see below)    £17,710 (2017/18)Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and receive information about open days, applications, and more.Register your interest Request a printed prospectus Download prospectus  selcs.admissions@ucl.ac.uk
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				You can study German as a single honours degree or in combination with another language or subject at UCL.This is a single-subject degree.This degree combines the study of German and History.This degree combines two modern languages.This degree combines a modern language and another, non-language subject.Film from the Undergraduate Open Day Geman Taster talk.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2017/18 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2018 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This four-year programme combines study of the language and culture of the German-speaking countries with a wide range of history modules offered by UCL's School of Slavonic & East European Studies (SSEES).The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject. For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective Student website.The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications and test providers can be found on our English language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International Education.These entrance requirements refer to the September 2018 intake, and may be subject to revision for 2019. This page will be updated in September 2018 with subject-specific entrance requirements for students planning to commence their degrees in September 2019.Thanks to a combination of intellectual training, articulacy and vocational skills, our graduates find employment in many areas of business and commerce, as well as in the public sector (especially, but not exclusively, in education and culture).While a significant number of our graduates choose to remain in the UK, others spend at least part of their working lives based elsewhere, often in German-speaking countries. Recent graduates of German-related programmes have been very successful in gaining employment with companies such as Deutsche Bank, Google, The Wall Street Journal and with organisations such as the British Council.A high percentage of our graduates proceed to further study, either acquiring additional qualifications in law, journalism or business administration, or embarking on Master's or doctoral degrees (in German studies, European history, and in related areas such as translating, interpreting or international relations).First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:*Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application we will be looking for evidence of your aptitude for language learning. We will hope to discover how you became interested in history and in German language, literature, culture or society, what you are doing to further your interests, and why you wish to study these subjects at degree level.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation make you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day. There, you will be able to experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedule pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

  			    
				  The four-year German BA encompasses intense study of German language and culture from the earliest times to the present. This programme combines a strong emphasis on linguistic competence with an exceptional breadth of research-led teaching, offering a detailed understanding of the development of German culture and society.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language.Choose from a
range of first-year ELCS modules.  
Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate second-year modules related to your chosen language.Choose from a
range of intermediate ELCS modules.Year ThreeYou spend your
Year Abroad in a country where your target language is spoken. Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics advanced
modules related to your chosen language or including ELCS modules.  In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective Student website.The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications and test providers can be found on our English language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International Education.These entrance requirements refer to the September 2018 intake, and may be subject to revision for 2019. This page will be updated in September 2018 with subject-specific entrance requirements for students planning to commence their degrees in September 2019.Thanks to a combination of intellectual training, articulacy and vocational skills, our graduates find employment in many areas of business and commerce, as well as in the public sector (especially, but not exclusively, in education and culture).While a significant number of our graduates choose to remain in the UK, others spend at least part of their working lives based elsewhere, often in German-speaking countries. Recent graduates have been very successful in gaining employment with leading companies such as Deutsche Bank, Google and The Wall Street Journal, and with organisations such as the British Council.A high percentage of our graduates proceed to further study, either acquiring additional qualifications in law, journalism or business administration or embarking on Master's or doctoral degrees (in German studies and related areas such as translating, interpreting or international relations).Please see first destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) from European Culture, Languages and Society programmes at UCL for a selection of representative careers for this programme.*Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application we will be looking for evidence of your aptitude for language learning, how you became interested in German language, literature, culture or society, what you are doing to further that interest, and why you wish to study this subject at degree level. Please note that single-honours German is not available from beginner's level.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation make you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you will be able to experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.
                                      URL:
   				The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This is a single-subject degree.This degree has two pathways (Italian Studies or Italian and History of Arts) and it includes two years of study in Ca' Foscari University of Venice and two at UCL.This degree combines two modern languages.This degree combines a modern language and another, non-language subject.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This innovative Double Degree is a unique opportunity to obtain two degrees (UCL BA in Italian Studies or Italian and History of Art plus the equivalent Italian Laurea in Lettere) with two years of study in Venice and two in London. The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.Students take a total of 120 ECTS from each institution (240 in total) of which 180 count towards the awarding of the degree. The remaining 60 can be transferred in Italy at MA level.One Latin or Classical culture subject:Two Italian Literature subjects:Or 2 x Intermediate level History of Art coursesAs you will be studying in Italy for your first two years of this programme, you will need a minimum of A-level standard Italian language. We welcome applications from those with Italian language but without a formal qualification in the language. You may be invited for interview to test your language skills prior to offer.In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective Student website.The Undergraduate Preparatory 
Certificates (UPCs) are intensive one-year foundation courses for 
international students of high academic potential who are aiming to gain
 access to undergraduate degree programmes at UCL and other top UK 
universities.Typical UPC students will be high
 achievers in a 12-year school system which does not meet the standard 
required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been 
conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate 
evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. Information about 
the evidence required, acceptable qualifications and test providers can 
be found on our English language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International Education.These entrance requirements refer to the September 2018 intake, and may be subject to revision for 2019. This page will be updated in September 2018 with subject-specific entrance requirements for students planning to commence their degrees in September 2019.By the final year, we aim to 
equip you with spoken and written language skills similar to those of an
 educated Italian.  The language and transferable skills developed 
throughout the degree can be applied in a wide variety of professions 
both in the UK and abroad.Our graduates find employment
 in numerous areas, including teaching, media, journalism and other 
arts-related fields as well as in the commercial and industrial sectors.
  It is also open to students of the department with a good first degree
 to continue their studies in Italian at graduate level by way of taught
 MA programmes and by research leading to the degree of MPhil or PhD.First career destinations of recent graduates (2012-2014) of this programme include:*Data 
taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey 
undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in 
the 2012-2014 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you 
get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers, 
UCL Advances and other entrepreneur societies here: Careers and skills.As you will be studying in Italy for your first two years of this programme, you will need an appropriate level of Italian language. We welcome applications from those with Italian language but without a formal qualification in the language. You may be invited for interview to test your language skills prior to offer.
When considering your application, we look for evidence of an interest 
in Italian literature, culture or language structure, and enthusiasm for
 learning a modern language.Application for admission should 
be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service).
 Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice 
on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are 
based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from 
UCAS. Application deadline:
                                        15 January 2018
                                    If your application demonstrates 
that your academic ability and motivation make you well-suited to our 
degree you may be invited to an interview for this programme.Our admissions process aims to 
assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural 
awareness and intellectual potential. For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of studentsThe fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				  The four-year Italian BA provides a stimulating programme of Italian language and linguistics, literature, art, history and film. The third year is spent in Italy, offering unrivalled possibilities to develop your linguistic proficiency and to immerse yourself in Italian culture. Previous knowledge of Italian is not required.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language.Choose from a
range of first-year ELCS modules.  
Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate second-year modules related to your chosen language.Choose from a
range of intermediate ELCS modules.Year ThreeYou spend your
Year Abroad in a country where your target language is spoken. Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics advanced
modules related to your chosen language or including ELCS modules.  In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective Student website.The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications and test providers can be found on our English language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International Education.These entrance requirements refer to the September 2018 intake, and may be subject to revision for 2019. This page will be updated in September 2018 with subject-specific entrance requirements for students planning to commence their degrees in September 2019.Our graduates have a marketable combination of talents, including the rigour and accuracy required to master a language, and the conceptual power, communication skills and imagination needed to tackle literature, history and other aspects of a foreign culture. Spending the third year abroad adds a unique capacity for enterprise and maturity to the mix. These qualities all provide an excellent preparation for the global, flexible and fast-changing economy of today.Our graduates find employment in many branches of commerce, finance and industry, including publishing, journalism, NGOs, broadcasting and film, as well as in teaching and higher education, libraries, museums and archives. Many continue their studies in Italian at a graduate level through MA programmes, which lead also to the MPhil or PhD.Italy's economy is significant in the world. British business is particularly influential in Italy in finance, advertising and market research. Many Italian companies are small and medium enterprises that are looking for contributions from British graduates to expand globally. Both UK and Italian companies value quality graduates with Italian linguistic skills. Please see first destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) from European Languages, Culture and Society programmes at UCL for a selection of representative careers.*Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.We welcome students with prior knowledge of Italian as well as beginners: about half of the first-year intake begins studying Italian without previous experience. When considering your application, we will look for evidence of an interest in Italian literature, culture or language, and enthusiasm for learning a modern language.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation make you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, we shall invite you to a post-offer open day at UCL, where you will meet staff and students, see our facilities, experience the teaching offered and get a taste of life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This flexible joint honours programme allows students to study two languages (Dutch, French, German, Hebrew, Italian, Russian, Danish, Norwegian, Swedish, Icelandic, Spanish, Bulgarian, Czech, Finnish, Hungarian, Polish, Romanian, Serbian/Croatian, Slovak, Ukrainian, Yiddish), choosing from departments within SELCS, UCL Hebrew & Jewish and the UCL School of Slavonic & East European Studies (SSEES).The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, 
combining a modern language together with another discipline, such as Film Studies,
 History of Art, Philosophy or Management Studies. You will also 
spend a year abroad in a country where the target language is spoken. The full list of combinations available is below, each language can be taken from scratch (with the exception of French and Spanish) or with prior knowledge (see entry requirements for more details).When applying for any of these courses you will apply with UCAS Code RY00 and we will then contact you to find out which combination you are interested in. Entry requirements will depend upon the combination.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				These entrance requirements refer to the September 2018 intake, and may be subject to revision for 2019. This page will be updated in September 2018 with subject specific entrance requirements for students planning to commence their degrees in September 2019.^Scandinavian Languages. Choose one of: Danish, Icelandic, Norwegian or Swedish. Please note that in general, the Scandinavian Languages are only available ab initio (Beginners' Level).The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2017/18 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2018 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by CombinationGCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by CombinationGCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.  There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

  				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjects.
View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2017/18 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2018 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjects.View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjects.
View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website.The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2017/18 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2018 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, 
combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or 
one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies,
 History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also 
spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by CombinationGCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic 
year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 
2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjects.
View A level Requirements by CombinationGCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic 
year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 
2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjects.
View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic 
year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 
2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjects
View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic 
year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 
2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjects
View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website.The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic 
year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 
2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website.The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjects
View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjects
View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by CombinationGCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjectsView A level Requirements by CombinationGCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 
		    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjects
View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjects
View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjects
View A level Requirements by CombinationGCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website.The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjects
View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjects
View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjects
View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjects
View A level Requirements by Combination
GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Sorry, this Silva Document is not viewable.Sorry, this Silva Document is not viewable.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjects
View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: Advanced A
variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
EducationThere are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjects
View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: Advanced A
variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
EducationThere are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjects
View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: Advanced A
variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
EducationThere are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjectsView A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: Advanced A
variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
EducationThere are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern Language Plus BA offers enormous choice and flexibility, combining a modern language (either one you have prior knowledge of, or one new to you), together with another discipline, such as Film Studies, History of Art, Jewish Studies or Management Studies. You will also spend a year abroad.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.The structure of
the degree will depend upon whether the degree title is ‘and’
another subject, or ‘with’ another subject. Degrees that are
‘and’ another subject will comprise of 2.0cu SELCS modules and
2.0cu modules of your other chosen subject, those that are ‘with’
another subject comprise of 3.0cu SELCS modules and 1.0cu modules
from your chosen other subject.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules.
Normally, if ELCS modules are taken in Year One they are not in Year
Two and vice-versa.Compulsory core
modules and options from your other subject. You will find the full
details of these on the other subject’s department website.Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate modules related to your chosen language or ELCS modules
(if not taken in Year One).Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is spent in a country where your target language is spoken.Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of in cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
advanced modules either all related to your chosen language or
including ELCS modules.Core compulsory
modules and options from your other subject.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of subjects
View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: Advanced A
variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
EducationThere are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates, and we embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching; others continue with training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the language you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the language (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation makes you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day, where you can experience the sort of teaching that we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Language Plus BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of language/subject they wish to be considered for.Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level so an A level or equivalent is therefore required for these combinations.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.
                                      URL:
                                      https://www.ucl.ac.uk/selcs/study/undergraduate/modern-languages-plus/modern-language-plus-spanish-with-management-studies-ba/tel%3A+44%20%280%2920%207679%203096
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
                                      URL:
                                      https://www.ucl.ac.uk/selcs/study/undergraduate/modern-languages/entry-requirements-2014
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				These entrance requirements refer to the September 2018 intake, and may be subject to revision for 2019. This page will be updated in September 2018 with subject-specific entrance requirements for students planning to commence their degrees in September 2019.*EEL - Eastern European Language. Choose one of: Bulgarian, Czech, Finnish, Hungarian, Polish, Romanian, Serbian/Croatian, Slovak or Ukrainian^Scandinavian Languages. Choose one of: Danish, Icelandic, Norwegian or Swedish.Please note that in general, the Scandinavian Languages are only available 'ab initio' (Beginners' Level). Portuguese is usually only available at beginner's level.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				These entrance requirements refer to the September 2018 intake, and may be subject to revision for 2019. This page will be updated in September 2018 with subject-specific entrance requirements for students planning to commence their degrees in September 2019.*EEL - Eastern European Language. Choose one of: Bulgarian, Czech, Finnish, Hungarian, Polish, Romanian, Serbian/Croatian, Slovak or Ukrainian^Scandinavian Languages. Choose one of: Danish, Icelandic, Norwegian or Swedish.Please note that in general, the Scandinavian Languages are only available 'ab initio' (Beginners' Level). Portuguese is usually only available at beginner's level.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This flexible programme allows students to study two languages (Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, Finnish, French, German, Hebrew, Hungarian, Icelandic, Italian, Norwegian, Spanish, Swedish, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Russian, Serbian/Croatian, Slovak, Ukrainian, Yiddish), choosing from departments within SELCS, UCL Hebrew & Jewish and the UCL School of Slavonic & East European Studies (SSEES).The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of first-year ELCS modules.  
Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate second-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of intermediate ELCS modules.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is split between two countries where your target languages are
spoken. Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of culture, literature, history, film and linguistics advanced
modules either all related to your chosen languages or including an
ELCS module.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by CombinationGCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates. We seek to embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Popular career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching, while others continue with graduate training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the languages you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the languages (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country or countries in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation make you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day. There, you will experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Languages BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of languages they wish to be considered for. Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level, therefore an A level or equivalent is required for these languages. For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

                                      URL:
                                      https://www.ucl.ac.uk/selcs/study/undergraduate/modern-languages/modern-languages-dutch-ba/tel%3A+44%20%280%2920%207679%203096
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This flexible programme allows students to study two languages (Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, Finnish, French, German, Hebrew, Hungarian, Icelandic, Italian, Norwegian, Spanish, Swedish, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Russian, Serbian/Croatian, Slovak, Ukrainian, Yiddish), choosing from departments within SELCS, UCL Hebrew & Jewish and the UCL School of Slavonic & East European Studies (SSEES).The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of first-year ELCS modules.  
Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate second-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of intermediate ELCS modules.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is split between two countries where your target languages are
spoken. Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of culture, literature, history, film and linguistics advanced
modules either all related to your chosen languages or including an
ELCS module. Grades AAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages  View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEs English
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs 
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes. For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities. Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL. For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc. If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page. The English language level for this programme is: Advanced A variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates. We seek to embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Popular career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching, while others continue with graduate training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the languages you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the languages (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country or countries in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation make you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day. There, you will experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Languages BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of languages they wish to be considered for. Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level, therefore an A level or equivalent is required for these languages. For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

                                      URL:
                                      https://www.ucl.ac.uk/selcs/study/undergraduate/modern-languages/modern-languages-dutch-ssees-ba/tel%3A+44%20%280%2920%207679%203096
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This flexible programme allows students to study two languages (Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, Finnish, French, German, Hebrew, Hungarian, Icelandic, Italian, Norwegian, Spanish, Swedish, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Russian, Serbian/Croatian, Slovak, Ukrainian, Yiddish), choosing from departments within SELCS, UCL Hebrew & Jewish and the UCL School of Slavonic & East European Studies (SSEES).The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of first-year ELCS modules.  
Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate second-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of intermediate ELCS modules.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is split between two countries where your target languages are
spoken. Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of culture, literature, history, film and linguistics advanced
modules either all related to your chosen languages or including an
ELCS module.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languagesView A level Requirements by CombinationGCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates. We seek to embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Popular career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching, while others continue with graduate training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the languages you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the languages (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country or countries in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation make you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day. There, you will experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Languages BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of languages they wish to be considered for. Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level, therefore an A level or equivalent is required for these languages. For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

                                      URL:
                                      https://www.ucl.ac.uk/selcs/study/undergraduate/modern-languages/modern-languages-french-ba/tel%3A+44%20%280%2920%207679%203096
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This flexible programme allows students to study two languages (Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, Finnish, French, German, Hebrew, Hungarian, Icelandic, Italian, Norwegian, Spanish, Swedish, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Russian, Serbian/Croatian, Slovak, Ukrainian, Yiddish), choosing from departments within SELCS, UCL Hebrew & Jewish and the UCL School of Slavonic & East European Studies (SSEES).The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of first-year ELCS modules.  
Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate second-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of intermediate ELCS modules.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is split between two countries where your target languages are
spoken. Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of culture, literature, history, film and linguistics advanced
modules either all related to your chosen languages or including an
ELCS module.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates. We seek to embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Popular career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching, while others continue with graduate training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the languages you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the languages (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country or countries in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation make you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day. There, you will experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Languages BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of languages they wish to be considered for. Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level, therefore an A level or equivalent is required for these languages. For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

                                      URL:
                                      https://www.ucl.ac.uk/selcs/study/undergraduate/modern-languages/modern-languages-french-ssees-ba/tel%3A+44%20%280%2920%207679%203096
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This flexible programme allows students to study two languages (Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, Finnish, French, German, Hebrew, Hungarian, Icelandic, Italian, Norwegian, Spanish, Swedish, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Russian, Serbian/Croatian, Slovak, Ukrainian, Yiddish), choosing from departments within SELCS, UCL Hebrew & Jewish and the UCL School of Slavonic & East European Studies (SSEES).The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of first-year ELCS modules.  
Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate second-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of intermediate ELCS modules.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is split between two countries where your target languages are
spoken. Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of culture, literature, history, film and linguistics advanced
modules either all related to your chosen languages or including an
ELCS module.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. (link to ML page on Prospectus site please)The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates. We seek to embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Popular career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching, while others continue with graduate training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the languages you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the languages (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country or countries in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation make you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day. There, you will experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Languages BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of languages they wish to be considered for. Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level, therefore an A level or equivalent is required for these languages. For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

                                      URL:
                                      https://www.ucl.ac.uk/selcs/study/undergraduate/modern-languages/modern-languages-german-ba/tel%3A+44%20%280%2920%207679%203096
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This flexible programme allows students to study two languages (Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, Finnish, French, German, Hebrew, Hungarian, Icelandic, Italian, Norwegian, Spanish, Swedish, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Russian, Serbian/Croatian, Slovak, Ukrainian, Yiddish), choosing from departments within SELCS, UCL Hebrew & Jewish and the UCL School of Slavonic & East European Studies (SSEES).The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of first-year ELCS modules.  
Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate second-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of intermediate ELCS modules.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is split between two countries where your target languages are
spoken. Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of culture, literature, history, film and linguistics advanced
modules either all related to your chosen languages or including an
ELCS module.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website.The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates. We seek to embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Popular career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching, while others continue with graduate training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the languages you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the languages (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country or countries in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation make you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day. There, you will experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Languages BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of languages they wish to be considered for. Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level, therefore an A level or equivalent is required for these languages. For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

                                      URL:
                                      https://www.ucl.ac.uk/selcs/study/undergraduate/modern-languages/modern-languages-german-ssees-ba/tel%3A+44%20%280%2920%207679%203096
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This flexible programme allows students to study two languages (Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, Finnish, French, German, Hebrew, Hungarian, Icelandic, Italian, Norwegian, Spanish, Swedish, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Russian, Serbian/Croatian, Slovak, Ukrainian, Yiddish), choosing from departments within SELCS, UCL Hebrew & Jewish and the UCL School of Slavonic & East European Studies (SSEES).The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of first-year ELCS modules.  
Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate second-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of intermediate ELCS modules.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is split between two countries where your target languages are
spoken. Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of culture, literature, history, film and linguistics advanced
modules either all related to your chosen languages or including an
ELCS module.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates. We seek to embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Popular career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching, while others continue with graduate training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the languages you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the languages (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country or countries in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation make you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day. There, you will experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Languages BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of languages they wish to be considered for. Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level, therefore an A level or equivalent is required for these languages. For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

                                      URL:
                                      https://www.ucl.ac.uk/selcs/study/undergraduate/modern-languages/modern-languages-italian-ba/tel%3A+44%20%280%2920%207679%203096
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This flexible programme allows students to study two languages (Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, Finnish, French, German, Hebrew, Hungarian, Icelandic, Italian, Norwegian, Spanish, Swedish, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Russian, Serbian/Croatian, Slovak, Ukrainian, Yiddish), choosing from departments within SELCS, UCL Hebrew & Jewish and the UCL School of Slavonic & East European Studies (SSEES).The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of first-year ELCS modules.  
Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate second-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of intermediate ELCS modules.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is split between two countries where your target languages are
spoken. Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of culture, literature, history, film and linguistics advanced
modules either all related to your chosen languages or including an
ELCS module.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates. We seek to embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Popular career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching, while others continue with graduate training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the languages you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the languages (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country or countries in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation make you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day. There, you will experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Languages BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of languages they wish to be considered for. Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level, therefore an A level or equivalent is required for these languages. For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

                                      URL:
                                      https://www.ucl.ac.uk/selcs/study/undergraduate/modern-languages/modern-languages-italian-ssees-ba/tel%3A+44%20%280%2920%207679%203096
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This flexible programme allows students to study two languages (Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, Finnish, French, German, Hebrew, Hungarian, Icelandic, Italian, Norwegian, Spanish, Swedish, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Russian, Serbian/Croatian, Slovak, Ukrainian, Yiddish), choosing from departments within SELCS, UCL Hebrew & Jewish and the UCL School of Slavonic & East European Studies (SSEES).The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of first-year ELCS modules.  
Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate second-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of intermediate ELCS modules.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is split between two countries where your target languages are
spoken. Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of culture, literature, history, film and linguistics advanced
modules either all related to your chosen languages or including an
ELCS module.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: Advanced A
variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
EducationThere are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates. We seek to embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Popular career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching, while others continue with graduate training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the languages you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the languages (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country or countries in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation make you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day. There, you will experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Languages BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of languages they wish to be considered for. Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level, therefore an A level or equivalent is required for these languages. For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

                                      URL:
                                      https://www.ucl.ac.uk/selcs/study/undergraduate/modern-languages/modern-languages-portugese-and-ba/tel%3A+44%20%280%2920%207679%203096
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This flexible programme allows students to study two languages (Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, Finnish, French, German, Hebrew, Hungarian, Icelandic, Italian, Norwegian, Spanish, Swedish, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Russian, Serbian/Croatian, Slovak, Ukrainian, Yiddish), choosing from departments within SELCS, UCL Hebrew & Jewish and the UCL School of Slavonic & East European Studies (SSEES).The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of first-year ELCS modules.  
Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate second-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of intermediate ELCS modules.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is split between two countries where your target languages are
spoken. Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of culture, literature, history, film and linguistics advanced
modules either all related to your chosen languages or including an
ELCS module.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: Advanced A
variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
EducationThere are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates. We seek to embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Popular career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching, while others continue with graduate training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the languages you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the languages (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country or countries in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation make you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day. There, you will experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Languages BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of languages they wish to be considered for. Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level, therefore an A level or equivalent is required for these languages. For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

                                      URL:
                                      https://www.ucl.ac.uk/selcs/study/undergraduate/modern-languages/modern-languages-portuguese-ssees-ba/tel%3A+44%20%280%2920%207679%203096
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This flexible programme allows students to study two languages (Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, Finnish, French, German, Hebrew, Hungarian, Icelandic, Italian, Norwegian, Spanish, Swedish, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Russian, Serbian/Croatian, Slovak, Ukrainian, Yiddish), choosing from departments within SELCS, UCL Hebrew & Jewish and the UCL School of Slavonic & East European Studies (SSEES).The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of first-year ELCS modules.  
Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate second-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of intermediate ELCS modules.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is split between two countries where your target languages are
spoken. Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of culture, literature, history, film and linguistics advanced
modules either all related to your chosen languages or including an
ELCS module.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates. We seek to embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Popular career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching, while others continue with graduate training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the languages you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the languages (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country or countries in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation make you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day. There, you will experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Languages BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of languages they wish to be considered for. Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level, therefore an A level or equivalent is required for these languages. For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

                                      URL:
                                      https://www.ucl.ac.uk/selcs/study/undergraduate/modern-languages/modern-languages-scandinavian-ba/tel%3A+44%20%280%2920%207679%203096
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This flexible programme allows students to study two languages (Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, Finnish, French, German, Hebrew, Hungarian, Icelandic, Italian, Norwegian, Spanish, Swedish, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Russian, Serbian/Croatian, Slovak, Ukrainian, Yiddish), choosing from departments within SELCS, UCL Hebrew & Jewish and the UCL School of Slavonic & East European Studies (SSEES).The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of first-year ELCS modules.  
Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate second-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of intermediate ELCS modules.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is split between two countries where your target languages are
spoken. Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of culture, literature, history, film and linguistics advanced
modules either all related to your chosen languages or including an
ELCS module.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by CombinationGCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website.The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates. We seek to embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Popular career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching, while others continue with graduate training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the languages you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the languages (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country or countries in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation make you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day. There, you will experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Languages BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of languages they wish to be considered for. Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level, therefore an A level or equivalent is required for these languages. For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

                                      URL:
                                      https://www.ucl.ac.uk/selcs/study/undergraduate/modern-languages/modern-languages-scandinavian-ssees-ba/tel%3A+44%20%280%2920%207679%203096
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This flexible programme allows students to study two languages (Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, Finnish, French, German, Hebrew, Hungarian, Icelandic, Italian, Norwegian, Spanish, Swedish, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Russian, Serbian/Croatian, Slovak, Ukrainian, Yiddish), choosing from departments within SELCS, UCL Hebrew & Jewish and the UCL School of Slavonic & East European Studies (SSEES).The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of first-year ELCS modules.  
Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate second-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of intermediate ELCS modules.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is split between two countries where your target languages are
spoken. Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of culture, literature, history, film and linguistics advanced
modules either all related to your chosen languages or including an
ELCS module.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: Advanced A
variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
Education.There are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates. We seek to embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Popular career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching, while others continue with graduate training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is committed to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the languages you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the languages (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country or countries in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation make you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day. There, you will experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Languages BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of languages they wish to be considered for. Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level, therefore an A level or equivalent is required for these languages. For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

                                      URL:
                                      https://www.ucl.ac.uk/selcs/study/undergraduate/modern-languages/modern-languages-spanish-ba/tel%3A+44%20%280%2920%207679%203096
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Sorry, this Silva Document is not viewable.Sorry, this Silva Document is not viewable.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This flexible programme allows students to study two languages (Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, Finnish, French, German, Hebrew, Hungarian, Icelandic, Italian, Norwegian, Spanish, Swedish, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Russian, Serbian/Croatian, Slovak, Ukrainian, Yiddish), choosing from departments within SELCS, UCL Hebrew & Jewish and the UCL School of Slavonic & East European Studies (SSEES).The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture and Society.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of first-year ELCS modules.  
Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate second-year modules related to your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of intermediate ELCS modules.Year ThreeYour Year Abroad
is split between two countries where your target languages are
spoken. Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen languages.Choose from a
range of culture, literature, history, film and linguistics advanced
modules either all related to your chosen languages or including an
ELCS module.GradesAAA
to ABB depending upon the combination of languages View A level Requirements by Combination GCSEsEnglish
Language at grade B, plus Mathematics at grade C. For UK-based students, a
grade C or equivalent in a foreign language (other than Ancient Greek, Biblical
Hebrew or Latin) is required. UCL provides opportunities to meet the foreign
language requirement following enrolment, further details at: www.ucl.ac.uk/ug-reqs
In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide
range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree
programmes.For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective
Student website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive
one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic
potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at
UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school
system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language,
you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English
proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications
and test providers can be found on our English
language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: Advanced A
variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International
EducationThere are many career opportunities for UCL's modern language graduates. We seek to embed within our teaching the acquisition of transferable skills as well as linguistic and cultural knowledge.Popular career paths for modern language graduates include the financial sector, the civil service, journalism, accountancy, publishing, education, advertising, the media and law. Some graduates pursue careers that make special use of their language skills, including translating, interpreting and teaching, while others continue with graduate training and research.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application, you should demonstrate an interest in the literature, culture and history of the languages you are proposing to study. Involvement in cultural activities in the languages (i.e. reading newspapers and magazines, watching television and films or engaging with relevant communities) is regarded favourably, as is travel to the country or countries in question.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation make you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, then we shall invite you to a post-offer open day. There, you will experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as cultural awareness and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.When applying for a place on this programme please submit your application to the Modern Languages BA. All applicants will then be contacted to confirm the chosen combination of languages they wish to be considered for. Please note that French and Spanish are not taught from beginner's level, therefore an A level or equivalent is required for these languages. For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

                                      URL:
                                      https://www.ucl.ac.uk/selcs/study/undergraduate/modern-languages/modern-languages-spanish-ssees-ba/accordion/View%20A%20level%20Requirements%20by%20Combination
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
                                      URL:
                                      https://www.ucl.ac.uk/selcs/study/undergraduate/modern-languages/modern-languages-spanish-ssees-ba/tel%3A+44%20%280%2920%207679%203096
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				DUTC1001 - Dutch Language 1DUTC1101 - Born out of
Rebellion: The Netherlands from The Dutch Revolt to The Eve of World War IDUTC1201 - Modern Dutch Literary
TextsFREN1001 - Use of FrenchFREN1002 - French OralFREN1003 - Projects in the French LanguageFREN1101 - The Making of Modern
FranceFREN1102 - Reading French
Texts FREN1106 - French FilmGERM1001 - Modern German LanguageGERM1002 - German for
Beginners GERM1101 - Introduction to
German HistoryGERM1102 - Introduction to
German Language & Literature up to 1740GERM1104 - Introduction to
German Film since 1945 GERM1105 - An Introduction to Modern German LiteratureGERM1106 - An Introduction to German Linguistics ITAL1010 - First Year Italian Language ITAL1102 – Cinema and Literature from War to ReconstructionITAL1105 - Background to Dante and InfernoITAL1112 - Imagining the Nation: Italian UnificationITAL1116 - Italian Culture under Fascism ITAL1118 - Introduction to Renaissance ItalySCAN1001 - Basic DanishSCAN1002 - Basic SwedishSCAN1003 - Basic NorwegianSCAN1004 - Basic Modern
IcelandicSCAN1102 - Introduction to
Linguistics and the Scandinavian LanguagesSCAN1201 - Nordic
StorytellingSCAN1303 - Histories and
Cultures of the Nordic RegionSCAN1401 - Introduction to
Old NorseSCAN1402 - Vikings and Material CultureSPAN1001 - Spanish Language ISPAN1212 - Experiments in
Modern Spanish DramaSPAN1213 - Introduction to
Spanish FilmSPAN1220A - Introduction to
Modern Latin American Literature & Culture - Cancelled SPAN1222 - Civilisation and Barbarism in Argentine LiteratureSPAN1223 - Cultural Responses
to the Mexican RevolutionSPAN1224 - The Latin American SupernaturalSPAN1225 - The Spanish Ballad
Tradition from the Middle Ages to LorcaSPAN1500 - Introduction to Spanish and Latin American Studies





 



These courses are compulsory for those on the 'with Portuguese' diets, 
and then available to single honours students (subject to availability).PORT1010 - Beginners'
PortuguesePORT1226 - Introduction to
Portuguese LiteraturePORT1227 - The Brazilian NovelLCUL1001 - Language, Culture and RepresentationLITC1001 Cultural Encounters in World LiteratureLITC1002 How To Read TextsLITC1003 Intimate Strangers: Devils, Monsters, BeastsLITC1004 Literature of TravelLITC1006 Questions of RealismLITC1007 Re-Imagining the Self: Reading Chinese Short FictionLITC1009 Music, Film and Media in AfricaLITC1010 Topics in the Modern Novel: From Realism to Magical Realism Additional Course Content Module available in our partner departments.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150Contact hours: 5 hours (3 seminars, 4 supervisions)Student workload: Watching video or film, reading, supplementary tasks to support writing of the
reports  Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2 Tutor: Dr Benjamin Bacle Assessment: 100% coursework - 2 reports of 1,000 words each  Prerequisites: GCE A level FrenchThis module is compulsory for single-subject and French with Film students. It is
available to CS/ML/MLP francophone students who do not take FREN1002. The module aims to foster research skills and independent learning in French,
leading to the production of pieces of discursive French. In the course of the
year, students are required to write two reviews in French, each of 1000 words,
the subjects of which will normally be a recent book, video or film of their
choice. BA French with Film students will produce two film reviews.  The module is taught through a mixture of seminars and individual tutorials. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0
course units / 15 ECTS Level: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 300Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2 Tutor: Christine Sas and language assistantsAssessment: one unseen two-hour examination (35%); one listening comprehension and oral examination (30%); and a portfolio including essays, listening and vocabulary tests and grammar assignments (35%).Module Description:This is an intensive language module for beginners. Five hours per week are devoted to developing practical language skills alongside basic grammatical competence, to enable students to participate in a wide variety of language exchanges and transactions. By the end of the first year students should be able to communicate fluently in basic written and spoken Dutch, expressing ideas and feelings about non-specialist topics. Attention is paid to developing a critical language awareness. Two hours per week are set aside for self-study, over and above homework tasks and module assessments, in order to consolidate and complement classroom work.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Students should obtain a copy of Routledge Intensive Dutch Course (London/New York: Routledge 2006). Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2 Tutor: Ulrich TiedauAssessment: two 1500 word essays (25% each) and one unseen two-hour examination (50%).Module Description:Situated at the crossroads between the Anglophone, Francophone and German-speaking cultures, “the Low Countries”, present-day Belgium and the Netherlands, offer a fascinating picture of European history en miniature. Many common traits and similar developments have differentiated these countries from the surrounding great powers and have given them a distinct character.The module offers a broad survey of Low Countries History from the late Middle Ages to the eve of World War I. It aims to: develop a good understanding of the major topics of Dutch and Belgian history from the late Middle Ages to the early 20th century; introduce basic concepts and approaches in the study of history; help you develop analytical, writing and presentation skills.Although mainly directed at students of Dutch, the module is also suited for all learners with an interest in this European neighbour region of the UK, whose early modern history was closely intertwined with that of Britain. No previous historical knowledge or competence in Dutch is required.Preparatory reading and set texts: The following textbook, a standard history, provides backup to the programme:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2Tutor: Hans DemeyerAssessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (50%); and one 2000 word coursework essay (50%).Module Description:This term 2 module introduces students to Dutch and Flemish literature through a series of short texts in Dutch. The texts – poetry and prose – are accessible to students who started the language in term 1. The module aims to develop techniques of literary analysis, practice reading skills, expand vocabulary and give students a grounding in contemporary and twentieth-century literature written in Dutch. Preparatory reading and set texts: Many of the stories and poems to be studied in class will be taken from the anthologiesAdditional useful reading:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Full yearConvenor: Marie FournierTutor: various Assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (100%).Students must pass this exam to be able to progress onto second year.Available to: non-specialist students from outside the department who have an A in French at GCE A level.Module Description:The aim of this first-year core language module is to 
establish a firm grasp of basic grammatical structures and tenses and to
 engender the skills of comprehension, explanation and free production 
of written French in a variety of forms. The module is taught in French. Satisfactory attendance and completion of the coursework are normally prerequisites for examination entry.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Full yearConvenor: Marie FournierTutor: various Assessment: one fifteen minute oral examination (100%). Satisfactory completion of 
the coursework is normally a prerequisite for examination entry. Module Description:In this first-year language module, students are required to respond in 
French to a variety of texts and other stimuli in different linguistic 
situations - dialogue, group presentation, synopsis, judgment etc. 
Topics will include a variety of subjects.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Term 2Convenor: Dr Kevin InstonTutor: various Teaching structure:  weekly lecture and seminarAssessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (100%). Satisfactory completion of the coursework is normally a prerequisite for examination entry. Module Description:The aim of this module is to introduce students to some of the key historical events which have shaped modern France, and to develop their critical and essay-writing skills. It will examine documents relating to the Revolution, the Dreyfus Affair, Vichy and the decolonization of Algeria, and encourage students to question the discursive and rhetorical forms which shaped these historical debates. The module looks at the historical context and explores the social, political and symbolic significance of the events. It also incorporates an element of peer-editing which will ask students to reflect upon and improve their own writing practices.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 0.5 course units / 15 UCL credits / 7.5 ECTSCourse Convenor: Dr Thibaut Maus de Rolley Assessment: one unseen two-hour examination (100%). Satisfactory completion of the coursework is normally a prerequisite for examination entry. Available to: ESPS students for whom French is a minor language choose between this module and FREN1101 - The Making of Modern France. Term: Full YearModule Description: The aim of this core course taught
over two terms (Terms 1 & 2) is to introduce students to different literary
genres of writing in French (prose narrative, theatre, poetry) and to equip
them with the analytical skills they will need in subsequent years to study
texts in greater depth.  We will study (not necessarily in chronological
order) six texts or group of texts: the 12th-century Lais de Marie de France, a series of
twelve short narrative poems in verse; L'Heptaméron, a collection of
short stories written by Marguerite de Navarre in the first half of the 16th
century; Molière’s L’Ecole des femmes
(1662), a comedy in verse on the education of women; Denis Diderot’s Supplément
au Voyage de Bougainville (1796), a dialogue contrasting European society
with that of a utopian Tahiti; a selection of 19th-century sonnets;
and finally, Jean-Paul Sartre’s Huis Clos
(1944), an existentialist play in which three deceased characters find
themselves locked in a room for eternity.  Students will attend a series of lectures
(13 hours over two terms) and seminars (14 hours). Assessment will take the
form of critical commentaries that analyse the text in close detail. Prescribed texts: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 0.5 course unit / 15 UCL credits / 7.5 ECTSTutor: Dr Roland-Francois LackAssessment: one 2000-word assessed essay (50%) and one 90-minute unseen examination (50%).
 Satisfactory completion of the coursework is normally a prerequisite 
for examination entry.Term: Term 2Module Description:Through close and intensive study of two key films, one from 1961 and 
one from 2012, these seminars introduce students to the methodology of 
film study, including sequence analysis, in the context of French art 
cinema between 1959 and 2012. In conjunction with the two principal 
films, ten related films will also be studied, enabling students to 
develop a comparative approach to film study.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:You should obtain, in any edition, one of the following three books:These are expensive volumes to buy new, so you might want to look for second-hand copies.You should also have your own copy of the two principal films to be studied:These films will be studied in conjunction with the two principal films:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSTotal Learning Hours: 300
Terms: Term 1 and Term 2
Tutor: Various
Assessment: Coursework (10%), Oral Examination (20%), Timed Examinations - Paper 1 
(40%): translation, reading comprehension and grammar (3 hours); Paper 2
 (30%): essay (2 hours).This
module is for Year 1 students studying German at post-A
level/-IB and for
Year 2 students who studied GERM1002 in their First Year.Module Description:This is a language module that develops a
range of core linguistic skills, including spoken and written German, reading
comprehension, and translation from German into English. The module consists of 3 components:Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This
module is for Year 1 students studying German at ab initio level.Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTS Level: First level (level 4)
Total Learning Hours: 300
Terms: Term 1, Term 2 and Term 3
Tutor: Dr Dagmar PaulusTeaching structure: This is a 3-term module (10 weeks per
term). Language learning moves from guided to more creative and independent
work. Assessment: portfolio (30%), oral examination (20%),  oral presentation (10%), one unseen three-hour written examination (40%).Module Description:This module is aimed at students with little or no knowledge
of German. The module introduces students to various aspects of the
German-speaking world as a way of enabling them to begin building communicative
abilities in German in all four language modalities: reading, listening,
writing, and speaking. Through diverse collaborative and individual tasks and
exposure to a range of topics, text types, and different socio-cultural
situations, students acquire basic strategies for reading, listening, and
writing, and for participating in every-day conversations. In the process they
will learn to use with some confidence major sentence patterns and grammatical
features of German as well as high-frequency vocabulary of everyday life.
Integration of current technology (e.g., the Internet, e-mail, video)
familiarises students with the German-speaking world while at the same time
enhancing language learning.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: We also
recommend:   Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First level (level 4)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 2
Tutor: Dr Jeff BowersoxTeaching Structure: Term 2. 2-hour weekly
seminar taught in English, consisting of lectures, class discussions, and
student presentations. Moodle to be used as a repository for reading materials
as well as for preparatory assignments.Teaching Structure: One class presentation; one set of practice questions.Assessment: One take-home exam in Term III (100%).Module Description:In this course students
 will explore German history from the Middle Ages to the present day. We
 will cover major events in medieval and early modern times, including 
the German Reformation and the Thirty Years
War, but our main focus will be on the nineteenth and twentieth 
centuries. We will engage with a variety of topics, 
including nationalism and nation-building, revolution and reaction, 
industrialization and urbanization, changing gender roles
and social structures, empire at home and abroad, mass politics and 
culture, Germans’ roles and experiences in two world wars, Nazi racism 
and genocide, and division and unification in the Cold War world.  The 
common threads running throughout will be Germans’
persistent experimentation with defining “Germany” and the consequences 
for those variously included and excluded according to gender, class, 
religion, race, politics, and other categories. Upon successful 
completion of the class, students will be able to discuss fundamental 
trends in German historiography, will be able to make effective use of 
secondary and primary sources to make a historical
argument, and will be able to present their analysis in both written and
 oral form. Students will come away with a foundation for future classes
 as well as a basic understanding of trends that continue to shape 
German society today. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1 and Term 2 Tutor: Dr Sebastian Coxon Teaching structure: The
module is conducted through a mixture of lecture and discussion classes; one
hour per week over two terms.Assessment: one
unseen two-hour written examination (45%), one 2,500 word essay (45%) and
coursework (10%).  Module
Description: This
module gives a taste of premodern literature, taking a range of works including
medieval short stories, the first Arthurian romance in German and an early novel.
All of these texts were designed to entertain and instruct their audiences and
readers. Our aim is to understand how these dual functions worked and what such
earlier forms of literature can tell us about the history of storytelling and
poetic expression. Students
will have plenty of opportunity to learn to read medieval texts in the
original. Please
note this module is not available to students who have undertaken GERM1002.
(Most of the relevant secondary literature is in German.) Preparatory
Reading and Set Texts: · Topic I: Der
Stricker: Erzählungen, Fabeln, Reden, ed. O. Ehrismann, Stuttgart 1992etc (Reclam 8797). · Topic II: Ein
kurzweilig Lesen von Dil Ulenspiegel, ed. W. Lindow, Stuttgart 1970etc (Reclam 1687) · Topic III: Hartmann
von Aue: Erec, ed. V.
Mertens, Stuttgart 2008etc (Reclam 18530) Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 2
Tutor: Dr Memerid Puw DaviesAssessment: 1 two-hour written examination 50%; 1 assessed essay (2,500 words) 50%, for which students will have access to DVD material. Module Description:This module will examine a representative selection of German films made,
mostly before 1989, by prominent post-war directors in the Federal Republic of
Germany, such as Herzog, Wenders, Fassbinder and Tykwer. These films pay
particular attention to German history and society and we will discuss as an
ongoing theme the ways in which they reflect contemporary perceptions of
Germany and  its troubled past. The course
will thus introduce students to post-war German culture more broadly, as well
as to techniques of film analysis. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course units / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1 and Term 2
Tutor: Various
Teaching structure: All teaching for this module will be in small tutorial groups.
Assessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay (50%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (50%). **Module Description:This module introduces students to the systematic and
 rigorous study of German literature. Some of you may have done very 
little literature at school; others may be used to discussing literary 
texts. Our introductory half-module is meant to speak to both the 
beginners and the ‘old hands’. We take a selection of texts written 
between the second half of the eighteenth century and the present.An average of three weeks will be spent on each text. The module will 
focus on developing both analytical skills and essay-writing techniques.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:It is important that students acquire these texts and read them well in advance of the tutorials. Term one Term twoTranslations for ab initio students:** Please note that this Term 2
module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination.  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First level (level 4)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1
Tutor: Dr Geraldine HoranAssessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay (50%); and one unseen two-hour written examination with three essays	(50%). **Module Description:The module will provide an introduction to linguistic concepts
              and topics which help us to understand the structure and use of
              the German language in contemporary times. The fields studied in
              the module include: phonetics and phonology; inflection and derivation;
              syntax; lexical structure, lexical borrowing, and sociolinguistic
              variation. Although the main focus of the module will be on the
              German language, comparisons with contemporary English will also
              be made where relevant. Primary material will be taken from newspapers
              and magazines, television and the internet where necessary. Students
              will be encouraged to find their own examples of linguistic phenomena
              from these sources. An essential part of the module will involve
              background reading of secondary material to consolidate understanding
              of guiding linguistic theories and principles.
Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: * You should purchase a copy of this if possible.  ** Please note that this module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0
course units / 15 ECTS Level: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 300Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2 Tutor: VariousAssessment: one oral examination (25%), coursework (10%) and one 
unseen three-hour written examination (65%) consisting of the following 
three questions:Post-beginners:Beginners: Module Description: This is an intensive mandatory module for all 
students studying Italian in any Modern Languages and Modern Languages 
Plus combination, as well as for those taking single honours Italian. Students with previous knowledge of Italian are 
tested during Registration Week and streamed into groups (advanced and 
intermediate). All other students will attend the beginners' module. Teaching focuses on the development of integrated skills 
(written and oral production and reception) and on the appropriate use 
of language functions. The aim is to bring all students to post-A level 
standards of communicative competence in Italian in its linguistic, 
socio-linguistic and pragmatic aspects by the end of the academic year. Set Texts:You will be placed in a language group appropriate to your level of Italian at the start of term.Essay/ Oral Grammar/Translation (All Students) All students must own a bilingual dictionary. We recommend Oxford Paravia Italian Dictionary English-Italian Italian-English, Milan, Paravia Bruno Mondadori Editori, 2001 (or a later edition). Books can be purchased from the Italian Bookshop (http://www.italianbookshop.co.uk/) with a 10% discount.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2  Tutor: Professor John DickieAssessment: one unseen two-hour written examination 
(100%) plus two formative commentaries (600 words each)Module Description:In July 1943, Allied armies invaded Sicily, leading to the
collapse of Mussolini's Fascist regime. Thereafter, Italy lived through perhaps
the most tumultuous period in its history. As the Allies and Nazis battled it
out, the resistance and recalcitrant Fascists fought a civil war behind the lines.
With the Liberation came new expressive freedoms, but also social conflict and
economic crisis, and the difficult process of constructing the political ground
rules for the post-war Republic. When the Cold War began in 1947, Italy, which
had the largest Communist Party in Western Europe, found itself on the front
line. Meanwhile, as the first signs of economic recovery appeared, Hollywood,
and American culture generally, fuelled new aspirations. This course
studies the cinema and literature that reflected many of the issues of the
decade following Mussolini's fall. It will also serve as an introduction to the
study of narrative in film and literature more generally. The themes covered may
include: realism and 'Neorealism'; ideological conflict and propaganda; the
legacy of the resistance; consumerism and glamour.  Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:  Our reading will
concentrate on a selection of the following books:

Background reading Prescribed
filmsAll films studied during the module are
available to borrow from the Italian Departmental office and have English
subtitles. There will also be showings timetabled during the first term. The
precise films studied may vary, but will certainly include the following:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Oscar SchiavoneTeaching structure: Introductory 
lectures in the first half of the first term on Dante’s life and times will be 
followed by readings from the text itself.Assessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (100%). Module Description:In this module, we engage with one of the most famous works in European literature: Dante's Inferno. We will begin by briefly reviewing the life and times of Dante Alighieri (1265-1321): his career in literature, and his experiences in the social world of medieval Florence, and later as a political refugee after he was exiled from his home town. All of this prepares us for reading the Inferno, the first part of Dante's great narrative poem, the Commedia, telling of a journey through the afterlife from hell to heaven. It is a poem that has fascinated readers for nearly 700 years, with its vivid language immersing us into a compellingly imagined otherworld. The Inferno is at once a ghost story, a quest, a road-trip, a love story, a virtual reality, and a spiritual vision - though as we will discover, each of these terms requires definition in the context of medieval life and thought. In the first weeks, we will explore the general form of Dante's Inferno and get to grips with some of his leading ideas and his writing style. Classes will combine introductory lectures with close reading of selected passages from the Inferno, corresponding to the lecture topic. In the second part of term we will concentrate more closely on reading sections from the poem, improving analytical and interpretive skills via seminar-style discussions and informal presentations. These classes will provide opportunities to focus especially on the 11 canti that have been selected for close study, from the 34 canti that make up the complete Inferno. The set canti are: canti 1, 4, 5, 10, 13, 15, 19, 26, 27, 33 and 34.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:These will be circulated at the first lecture.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2Tutor: Professor Robert LumleyAssessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (100%); one compulsory but not assessed essay; and one compulsory but not assessed commentary.Module Description:The premise of the module is that it is impossible to understand Italy today without knowing how the country was unified in the first half of the 19th century - what is called 'the Risorgimento'. It introduces the protagonists of this epic: Mazzini, Garibaldi, Cavour, Verdi, and Manzoni, and looks at the part played by literature, and music as well as politics in the national cause. We examine how questions that still preoccupy Italians - the divisions between North and South, corrupt politicians, the power of the Church, - all originate in this key historical moment. Contemporary visual materials and documents are used, together with films on the Risorgimento. The content and the methods of study provide an excellent grounding for other modules in history, visual culture, cinema and literature taught in the department and across UCL.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(ITAL1116A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars
take place at the same times as ITAL1116.)Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1  Tutor: Dr Marta NiccolaiAssessment: ITAL1116: two 2,000-word essays (50% each).ITAL1116A: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module Description:This module is an overview of Italian culture during Fascism. It gives
an introduction to the literature, art, and cinema during Mussolini’s
dictatorship (1922-1943) and provides an understanding of the relationship
between Italian intellectuals and the Fascist State, the places, institutions,
and events (Accademia d’Italia, Littoriali della cultura e
dell’arte, etc.) for the production of culture during the regime, and
issues of censorship and cultural propaganda. It also considers Italy’s
cultural relationships with other countries during the Fascist regime, looking
at international exchanges and initiatives, translations of foreign books into
Italian, and the look of foreigners visiting the peninsula.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:The
following texts provide the general historical and cultural context for the
understanding of literary and visual productions analyzed during the module,
and also set the terms for broader debates, themes, and questions.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(ITAL1118A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars
take place at the same times as ITAL1118.)Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Lisa SampsonAssessment: ITAL1118: one 2000 word essay (50%); one unseen two-hour written examination (50%).ITAL1118A: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module Description: The ‘Renaissance’ refers
to the rebirth of classical culture and is associated with a period of innovation
in Italy across the arts and sciences. This introductory module allows students
to broaden their understanding of this key period of Italian civilization by
exploring the politics, society and culture from the late 14th to
the 16th centuries. The module discusses a variety of topics, such
as the political landscape, the rise of the papacy, the role of the family and
friends,  the Medici, humanism and education, and the
changing status of artists. Students will also have the opportunity to study
two of the most significant works of the period both linked to the Medici
dynasty of Florence. Machiavelli’s Prince
(1513) presents a fascinating and still very relevant analysis of the darker
aspects of political life; Vasari’s Lives
of the Artists (1550; 1568) is an
influential history of art, with vivid biographies of artists like Giotto and
Michelangelo and perspectives on their masterpieces. The module will be taught
by a combination of formal lectures and seminars and may involve a study trip
to the V&A museum.    All primary Italian
materials will be available in English translation to accommodate the
requirements of ab initio students,
but may also be read in the original Italian.   Preparatory reading
and set texts   Set texts* · Machiavelli, Niccolò, The Prince (preferred edition by Quentin Skinner and Russell Price
(Cambridge, 1988)) · Vasari, Giorgio, The Lives of the Artists, transl. with intro. and notes by Julia
Conaway Bondanella and Peter Bondanella (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1998)
(or any edition that includes the Prefaces, Giotto, Masaccio, Raphael and
Michelangelo) [*the Italian texts can both be accessed online: http://www.bibliotecaitaliana.it/] Background
reading/viewing · Najemy, John M., ed., Italy in the Age of the Renaissance (Oxford: Oxford University
Press, 2004)  · Hay, Dennis and John Law, Italy in the Age of the Renaissance (London: Longman, 1989) · Burke, Peter, The Italian Renaissance: culture and society in Italy, 2nd edition
(Oxford: Polity Press, 1999) · Cole, Alison, Art of the Italian Renaissance courts: virtue and magnificence
(London: George Weidenfeld and Nicolson, 1995) · F. W. Kent and Patricia Simons, with J. C. Eade,
eds, Patronage, Art, and Society in  Renaissance Italy (Oxford: Clarendon, 1987) · Najemy, John M., A History of Florence,
1200-1575 (Oxford: Blackwell, 2006) · Skinner, Quentin, Machiavelli: A very short introduction, 2nd edn (Oxford: OUP, 2000)
 · Grendler, Paul F., ed., Encyclopedia of the Renaissance, 6 vols (New York: Scribner’s,
1999) [informative longer entries for reference] · Web Gallery of Art: http://www.wga.hu/
(look at works by Giotto, Masaccio, Raphael and Michelangelo) Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0
course units / 15 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 300 Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2 Tutor: Dr Eleanor ChiariAssessment: two essay questions weighted 50% (2,500 words) and 50% (2,500 words)Available to: available
only to BA Language & Culture students, not to affiliates.Module Description: This interdisciplinary module
introduces students to theory and methods that will be useful across languages
and departments in and beyond SELCS. Topics covered will include general
introductions to cultural studies, visual culture, translation studies, gender
studies, postcolonial studies, sociolinguistics and intercultural communication
among others. The course also includes practical training from conducting oral
history interviews, to analysing a wide range of media sources (from films to
advertising), to museum field trips.  The second term will see
students prepare independent research projects in teams, which they
present to classmates and a panel of 'judges'. Students are encouraged to
participate in weekly discussions, on-line fora and learn as much from the
lecturer as from their multi-talented and multilingual classmates. Optional preparatory reading:  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: First level (level 4)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr
Ana Cláudia Suriani da SilvaAssessment: One 2,500-word
coursework essay (50%) and one unseen desk exam (50%)Course description:This course aims to introduce students to both the Brazilian novel and
its cultural, social, literary and historical contexts from the 19th
to the beginning of the 20th century. The module will explore
different traditions of novel writing in Brazil, place the emergence of
Brazilian novel in relation to the contemporary European novel, and introduce
students to a range of important discussions about the novel as a genre, its
cultural function, its audiences, and its relation to the social world.Method of delivery:Lectures
and seminars convened and facilitated by the individual course tutor.
Occasional guest lectures may be included in order to help expose students to
new scholarship especially from Brazil. The module is supported by an
individual course Moodle site. All course information will be made available
via Moodle. Primary texts for lectures and seminars will be made available via
Moodle. There will be film screenings of existing adaptations of the works
under study.Aims of the module:You may start reading the primary texts for this course
before classes begin. Primary texts (in English translation):Adaptations:  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course units / 15 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4)Total Learning Hours: 300Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2Tutor: Dr Joana Rita RamalhoTeaching structure: The class meets 4
hours per week in two 2-hour classes. The teaching is divided into four main
components: Oral, Grammar, Translation into
Portuguese and Translation into English. Other
skills, such as listening and reading comprehension and writing skills, are
included in each of the four components.Assessment: Final Desk Exam with components
of Grammar, Composition in Portuguese, Translation into Portuguese and
Translation into English (50%); Oral
Exam (20%); Coursework (30%). The coursework consists
of two grammar quizzes, two oral presentations, two writing exercises
in Portuguese, two translations into Portuguese, and two translations into
English. The breakdown for coursework marks is 3% for each component.  Module Description:Taken over two
terms, this is an intensive ab initio course designed for students who
have had little or no exposure to Portuguese. It aims to take you from basic to pre-intermediate level, matching
the linguistic ability of level A2 of the Common European Framework of
Reference for Languages (CEFR), with some aspects of B1 also being explored. The general language class provides
a friendly atmosphere where you can practice and gradually build up confidence
in spoken and written Portuguese. Both the
European and Brazilian varieties are explored. The
intensive grammar classes establish the foundations for the reading and translation of more advanced texts. The
translation classes equip you with the
relevant competences to tackle translations of literary and non-fiction texts
from Portuguese into English. They will also help you work towards accurate
translations from English into Portuguese. Over the two terms, you will hear
about some key Lusophone writers, artists, contemporary and historical
personalities, watch carefully selected video materials, and familiarize yourself
with some of the key media outlets of the Lusophone world. By the end of the
module, you will be able to communicate fluently in a wide range of everyday
situations, hold conversations on routine topics, write and translate
simple texts into Portuguese, and read and translate more advanced Portuguese texts
into English. You will be acquainted with key aspects of the Lusophone
culture(s) across the globe, and feel stimulated to establish connections
between the language classes and the
literary and intellectual worlds explored in the PORT content modules. We will encourage you to work
over the summer to ensure that you start Year 2 with confidence.Course materials:  Your tutor will make use of a combination of online
resources, grammars, textbooks and other materials. You are asked to bring the following
books to class. Whilst the library has copies for reference or short loan,
purchasing these materials is strongly recommended for use in class and at home: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(PORT1226A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The module  takes place at the same times as PORT1226A.)Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: First level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Zoltán BiedermannAssessment:PORT1226: one 2,500 word coursework essay (50%) and a two hour unseen desk exam (50%)
PORT1226A: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module Description:This module introduces students to Portuguese literature
with an emphasis on canonical texts and their historical contexts. The first
part is dedicated to the origins and first apogee of Portuguese as a literary
idiom. From Galician-Portuguese poetry, the module proceeds to three sessions
on the various facets of the sixteenth century, and concludes with the
prophetic tradition that informed António Vieira’s writing in the seventeenth
century. Thus the first part of the module collects references to an apparently
perennial tension in Portuguese literature between imperial glory on the one
hand, and loss on the other. This tension, it is argued, is to some extent
constitutive of the Portuguese literary tradition. But it also calls for a
critique, as the second part of the module demonstrates. In weeks 6-10 students
will read modern authors who, whilst reflecting upon the decay of Empire, are
most notable for personal narratives of fragmentation and loss. Materials will
be available in English translation. All secondary readings for the classes
will be in English.Companion:Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: SCAN1001: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSSCAN1001A/SCAN1001B:  15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: First Level (Level 4)
Total Learning Hours: 
SCAN1001: 300  SCAN1001A/SCAN1001B: 150

Term: SCAN1001: Full Year  SCAN1001A: Term 1 SCAN1001B: Term 2

Tutor: Dr Anne GrydehøjAssessment: SCAN1001A: 100% coursework. 
SCAN1001/SCAN1001B: one unseen three-hour written examination
(50%); one oral examination (30%); and course assessment (20%).Teaching Structure: 2x 2-hour seminar per week, consisting of tutor-led
discussions, communicative exercises and student presentations. Moodle to be used as a repository for reading
materials as well as for preparatory assignments and forum discussions.Module
Description:The module
aims to: strengthen the individual student’s awareness of different strategies
and methods for language learning; be goal-oriented in the work with the
language skills: speaking, understanding, writing and reading and with the
basic elements pronunciation, vocabulary and grammar; enable the students to
express themselves about everyday topics in speech and writing, to understand
everyday conversations, and to read texts of a reasonable level of difficulty.Class work
is communicative and task-oriented, encouraging students to be active
participants, to take responsibility for their own learning and to see work
outside class as an integrated part of classroom teaching.Preparatory
Reading and Set Texts:Textbooks:
The tutor's own material will be used (textbook tba), along with various texts,
video and audio materials, and exercises made available on the Moodle site. Grammar: It
is recommended that students have their own copy of R Allan, P Holmes & T
Lundskær-Nielsen, Danish: An
Essential Grammar (Routledge 2011).Dictionaries:
Dansk-engelsk ordbog
& Engelsk-dansk ordbog
(Gyldendal) or similar. Make sure that the dictionary gives you the gender of
nouns.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of 
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the 
academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: SCAN1002: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSSCAN1002A/SCAN1002B:  15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: First Level (Level 4) Total Learning Hours: SCAN1002: 300  SCAN1002A/SCAN1002B: 150 Term: SCAN1002: Full Year  SCAN1002A: Term 1 SCAN1002B: Term 2 Tutor: Jelena CalicAssessment: SCAN1002A:100% coursework.SCAN1002/SCAN1002B:one unseen three-hour written examination (50%); one oral
examination (30%); and one module assessment (20%).Module Description:The module aims to teach students basic vocabulary, grammar and sentence patterns
so as to enable them to read elementary Swedish texts, understand simple
everyday conversations and express themselves with some fluency in both speech
and writing. By
the use of a variety of techniques the students will gradually become
acquainted with spoken and written Swedish and develop the skills necessary to
express themselves in the language.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Textbook
and grammar to be announced in the first week of the Autumn Term. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSLevel: First Level (Level 4)Total Learning Hours: 300Term: Full YearTutor: Dr Elettra CarboneAssessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (50%); one oral examination (30%); and one assessment (20%).Module Description:The aim of the module is to teach the students basic communication skills in
Norwegian: speaking, reading, writing and understanding everyday
Norwegian. In class: Reading Norwegian texts. Conversation in
connection with texts and related everyday topics. Listening and
pronunciation exercises. Occasional role-play and class presentations
by individual students on topics they have prepared at home. Grammar is
explained systematically and the students are given exercises in
connection with grammatical points. At home: Reading, essay writing, translation, grammatical exercises
and occasional preparation of role-play and oral presentations. The form of Norwegian taught will be bokmål. As soon as practical, all class interaction will take place in Norwegian.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: Elisabeth Ellingsen and Kirsti Mac Donald, Norsk på 1-2-3, Cappelen Damm, 2010.One of the following grammars:DictionariesAll
 students must own a good English-Norwegian and Norwegian-English 
dictionary, one of the dictionaries must indicate the gender 
of Norwegian nouns. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSLevel: First Level (Level 4)Total Learning Hours: 300Term: Full YearTutor: Dr Helga Hlaðgerður LúthersdóttirAssessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (50%); one oralexamination (20%); and one assessment, in the form of a language portfolio (30%).Module Description:This module aims to give
students insight into the Icelandic language, its structure and history. The module equips students with a basic knowledge of Icelandic, both written and
spoken, so that they will be able to read elementary texts, engage in simple daily
conversation, and pursue further studies in the modern language. Students will gain
knowledge of the fundamentals of Icelandic grammar, vocabulary, sentence
structure and pronunciation. Modern texts will be studied as well, and students
will practice both spoken and written Icelandic to develop their skills in
expressing themselves in Icelandic. In addition, the module will cover in broad
outline the history of the language and contemporary ‘language politics’
(loan-words, neologisms etc.).Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:DictionariesReadings, Grammar and Exercises Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (Level 4)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Full YearConvenor: Jesper HansenAssessment:  one unseen three-hour written examination (70%); and one 2-3,000 word essay (30%).Module Description: It is essential for students following language modules at university level to have a grasp of basic linguistic 
terminology and concepts. This module focuses mainly on language as a set 
of formal, interdependent sub-systems, such as phonetics/phonology 
(sound production and sound systems), grammar in the sense of morphology
 (word-formation and word classes) and syntax (phrases, clauses, 
sentences and word order), as well as on broader aspects of language as a
 special communication system. This will initially be illustrated with 
the help of English and the knowledge thus gained will then at each 
stage be applied to the mainland Scandinavian languages (Danish, 
Norwegian and Swedish).A brief historical 
background, charting the main stages in the development of English and 
the mainland Scandinavian languages from Common Germanic to the present,
 will also be provided.By the end of the module, 
students should thus have a sound knowledge of basic phonetics and 
grammar and be able to apply this chiefly to their chosen mainland 
Scandinavian language. They will also have an overview of the basic 
phonetic and grammatical data in the two other mainland Scandinavian 
languages and of the key stages in the historical development of English
 and the Scandinavian languages.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Some handouts will be provided and other reading materials will be recommended at the start of the module.Please note that this module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (Level 4)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Jakob Stougaard-NielsenAssessment: One essay of 4,000 words (100%)
Teaching structure: Two-hour weekly seminars consisting of lectures,
class discussions and student presentations. Moodle to be used as a repository
for reading materials as well as for preparatory assignments, formative
assessments and forum discussions.  Module Description: This module aims to develop
the skills required to analyse and contextualise literary prose. The texts to
be studied are predominantly Nordic (in English translation), selected from the
long and rich tradition of Nordic folk, fairy and fantastic tales, from
Medieval ballads to Gothic tales and postmodern short stories, animated and
fantasy film. More generally, the module will investigate a variety of
narrative components (e.g. narrator, character, genre, theme), and will explore
why storytelling has been and continues to be a central human activity, how it
has changed over time and how stories reflect changing conceptions of Nordic
societies, cultures and identities. The module will introduce students to a
broad range of theories and methods in literary studies including narratology,
gender studies, print culture and monster studies. Preparatory Reading and Set
Texts: Reading materials and a guide
for locating texts to be studied in the module will be made available on
Moodle. Primary texts to be studied may include a selection of Scandinavian
folk tales, Hans Christian Andersen’s fairy tale The Little Mermaid (1837),
the Norwegian film Trollhunter (2010)
and the Swedish vampire novel, Let the
Right One In (2004). As basic text books, we
suggest you use: · Monika Fludernik, An Introduction to Narratology
(Routledge, 2009) · Andrew Bennett & Nicholas Royle, An
Introduction to Literature, Criticism and Theory (Pearson, 2009). · Marina Warner, Managing
Monsters (Vintage 1994) · Fred Botting, Gothic
(Routledge, 2014) · John Lindow, Trolls:
An Unnatural History (Reaktion Books, 2014) Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSLevel: First Level (Level 4)Total Learning Hours: 300Term: SCAN1303: Full Year (1cu), SCAN1303A: Term 1 (0.5cu), SCAN1303B: Term 2 (0.5cu)Tutor: Annika LindskogAssessment: coursework one (1,500 words, 15%); coursework two (2,500 words, 35%); coursework three (1,500 words, 15%); 2-hour written exam (35%)Assessment: SCAN1303A - coursework one (1,500 words, 30%); coursework two (2,500 words, 70%)Assessment: SCAN1303B - coursework one (1,500 words, 30%); 2-hour written exam (70%)Module Description:The module is designed to underpin a solid introduction to Scandinavian culture and language in the first year of the Department’s single and joint honours degree programmes. It is meant to introduce the study of history and of various forms of cultural production, while demonstrating the interaction between these cognate disciplines. The module also aims to contribute to the students’ intellectual and personal development by explicitly posing questions about power, ideology, authority and identity.Students will gain knowledge and understanding of:The module will provide a thoroughgoing, wide-ranging and stimulating introduction to the history and culture of the Nordic region. Taught in an explicitly interdisciplinary manner by a number of members of faculty from the Department of Scandinavian Studies, the module will invite students to reflect on the methodologies and approaches specific to different, cognate disciplines (such as History, Literary Studies, etc.), and to identify connections between them. A central concern is to emphasise the constructed nature of historical narrative, and to this end the module will be structured around a number of key dates, moving backwards and forwards in time to explore both historical causality and relevant cultural expressions of the sociological formations under investigation.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Journals: Students will also be expected to read appropriate chapters from standard history textbooks before each lecture/seminar, and to familiarise themselves with the primary materials chosen for that week. A Moodle site will allow for posting of digitised and online resources week-by-week, as well as post-seminar discussion.Please note that this module is assessed by both essay and examination (apart from SCAN1303A). In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the final essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSPG Value: 30 creditsLevel: First Level (Level 4)Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Full YearTutor: Dr Erin GoeresTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. UG Assessment: 2 x in-class tests (15% each), 1 x two-hour written exam (70%)SCAN1401A (Affiliates only): Two-hour written exam (100%)PG Assessment: Three-hour written exam (100%)Module Description:Old Norse,
the medieval precursor to the modern Scandinavian languages, was once heard
throughout Europe and beyond. During the
Middle Ages Scandinavian ships travelled west to North America and east to
Istanbul. The scope and variety of the
Old Norse literary corpus matches the remarkable span of these journeys: myths
and legends, love- and battle-poetry, prose narratives about kings,
adventurers, poets and saints are all found in Old Norse. This module will introduce students to a wide
range of Old Norse language and literature, situated within the broader context
of the history and culture of Viking and medieval Scandinavia. Students will develop a good understanding of
the basics of Old Norse grammar and by the end of the module will be able to
translate medieval Icelandic prose and some forms of poetry. They will become familiar with key texts in
the Eddic, skaldic and saga traditions, and will begin to explore ways in which
contemporary scholarship can shed light on the complex but rewarding world of
medieval literature.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Students
are advised to obtain a copy of A New
Introduction to Old Norse – Part 1: Grammar, ed. Michael Barnes (London,
2004).The two set texts will be Ari Þorgilsson’s Íslendingabók and Auðunar
þáttr in A New Introduction to Old
Norse – Part II: Reader, ed. Anthony Faulkes (London, 2008). Both volumes,
as well as the accompanying glossary, are available online at Viking Society Publications.  The
following will offer a good introduction to the subject: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (Level 4)Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Haki AntonssonAssessment: two essays of 2,000 words each
(50% + 50%)This
module introduces students to the material culture of Viking and medieval
Scandinavia. Through a series of workshops at the British Museum, British
Library and other London-based institutions, students will gain first-hand
experience working with artefacts and manuscripts from the period. These
workshops will complement a series of seminars held in the Department in which
students will examine more broadly the archaeology and history of the period,
as well as the theoretical background to the use of objects as sources for
history and culture.  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course units / 15 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4)Total Learning Hours: 300Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2Tutor: variousModule convenors: Dr Adolfo Sánchez Cuadrado & Marga Navarrete Teaching
structure:Assessment:
Final Desk Exam with components of
Grammar, Composition in Spanish, Translation into Spanish and Translation into
English (50%); Oral Exam (20%);
Coursework (30%). The coursework consists of two grammar
quizzes, two oral presentations, two writing exercises in Spanish, two
translations into Spanish, and two translations into English. The breakdown
for coursework marks is 3% for each component.Assessment 2016-17:Module
Description:This
is a post A-level first year Spanish language module, consolidating level B1
and exploring level B2 of the Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages (CEFR). By the end of the second term, students are expected to
master complex structures of written and spoken Spanish. You should be able to
communicate fluently in a variety of contexts and deal with most situations
likely to arise when travelling in a Spanish-speaking country. The Grammar and
Communicative Language Skills class provides a friendly atmosphere where you
can practice and build up confidence in spoken and written Spanish. Different
varieties of Spanish will be explored. The Translation classes equip you with
the relevant competences to tackle translations from both Spanish into English
(literary and non-fiction texts), and English into Spanish (audiovisual
materials, including a video that you will produce yourself). You will be
acquainted with key aspects of the Hispanic culture(s) across the globe, especially
in the Additional Contents and Skills classes.Please
note that there is no ab initio Spanish
language teaching in this Department. Set
Textbooks*: VV. AA. (2014),
Aula internacional 4. B2.1. Nueva edición. Barcelona: Difusión. 160
pages. ISBN: 9788415620853VV. AA. (2010), Todas
las voces B1. Curso de cultura y civilización. Barcelona: Difusión. 144
pages. ISBN: 9788484437222VV. AA. (2012), Developing
Writing Skills in Spanish. London and New York: Routledge. 372 pages.
Hardback ISBN: 9780415590822. Paperback ISBN: 9780415590839. [Digital copy
available from UCL library].VV. AA. (2011), Gramática
básica del estudiante de español. Edición revisada y ampliada. Barcelona:
Difusión. 302 pages. ISBN: 9788484437260.
 [You have the option of getting the English version: Students’ Basic
Grammar of Spanish. Revised and Expanded Edition. Barcelona: Difusión. 312
pages. ISBN: 9788484434375
] *Students are required to get a copy of each book and are expected to bring them to their respective classes according to the
weekly syllabus specified on Moodle.  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4)Total Learning Hours: 150Term/s: Term 2Tutor: Dr Gareth WoodAssessment: One 2,500 word coursework essay (50%) and a two-hour desk exam (50%)Module Description:This module will introduce students to the work
of Spain’s most ambitious dramatists of the early twentieth century: 
Ramón
María del Valle-Inclán, Miguel de Unamuno, and Federico García Lorca. 
These three writers were key figures in the flourishing of Spanish 
cultural life between the end of the nineteenth century and the outbreak
 of the Civil War in 1936, the year in which each of them died. Their 
dramatic works in particular fought against the stodgy, middle-class 
values that they believed were preventing the Spanish stage from 
becoming a focus of renewed artistic energy. Working chronologically, 
this module will examine how these three writers experimented with dramatic 
form,
the possibilities of staging, and the capacity of theatre to challenge 
its
audience to experience art in new ways.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:The set texts will be as follows:A more detailed bibliography of secondary sources will be provided via Moodle and in class.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(SPAN1213A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The module takes place at the same time as SPAN1213.)Value: 0.5 course unitsTerm: Term 1Tutor: Dr Maria Chiara D'ArgenioAssessment:SPAN1213: One 2,500 word coursework essay (50%) and a two-hour desk exam (50%)
SPAN1213A: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module Description:This
module will provide an introduction to film analysis and to key aspects of the
development of Spanish cinema. Topics examined will include: Melodrama, Film
noir, influence of Italian neo-realism, The Spanish Civil War, Censorship,
The political transition to democracy, Colonialism, Postmodernism,
Transnationalism. Films studied will include:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				****This module has been cancelled for 2017/18****Value: 0.5 course unitTutor: Dr Stephen FayAssessment: Two 2,000-word essays (each weighted at 50%) Module Description: This module introduces first-year students to key historical
moments of the 20th century in which Latin American societies and
cultures underwent significant transformations. The course explores these
transformations through the prism of some of the most significant (although not
necessarily the most well known) texts produced during this period. The
course is divided into two sections, each of which covers a different
but closely complementary theme.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Modernismo y Americanismo (weeks 6-10) Primary texts Complementary Texts:JMRDÁfrica en América (weeks 12-16)Primary Texts  Initial Complementary Texts:   Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s:  Term 2

Tutor: Dr Humberto Núñez-FaracoAssessment: One 2,500 word coursework essay (50%) plus one unseen desk exam (50%).Module Description: This course provides an introduction to 19th- and
20th-century Argentinian literature with particular attention to the dichotomy
civilisation versus barbarism. Topics examined include the conflict between the
colonial heritage and the progressive ideals of the liberal generation in the
first half of the 19th century, the participation and/or exclusion of different
ethnic groups in the process of constructing a national identity, the
appropriation of Positivist ideologies, and the emergence of cultural
nationalism in the 20th century. The texts studied will encourage in-class
debate on the role of ideology in nation-building, as well as issues regarding
race, class, and social conflict. Classes will take the form of lectures and
seminars involving discussion and close analysis of the texts studied. N.B. This course
is taught in Spanish (seminar discussions are held in English)Methodology:All classes combine an initial lecture of approx.
45 mins followed by a reading seminar (group discussion). There will be a
5-minute pause in-between. Students are kindly requested to read in
advance the corresponding texts for each week. Following each
lecture/seminar, full class notes will be posted on Moodle. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Course schedule:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: First Level (level 4)  Total Learning Hours: 150  Term/s: Term 2Tutor: Dr Macarena Jiménez NaranjoAssessment: One 2,500 word coursework essay (50%) and a two-hour desk exam (50%)Module Description:This module studies the representation
of the Mexican revolution in literature and muralism. We will cover the
life-course of a phenomenon that, although an extremely violent, costly and
lengthy period was simultaneously, as Octavio Paz has stated ‘a sudden
immersion of Mexico in her own being’. Mexico’s Revolution brought about
violent but also social, political and cultural change. It shook the entire
country from top to bottom and has been an obsession in culture, arts and
literature ever since. During the course we will cover both the revolution’s
armed struggle (a chaotic and violent period spanning the years 1910-1920), and
its institutional phase ranging from about 1920 to 1946. This course examines
artistic manifestations that look both analytically and critically at the Revolution
and its consequences. We will discuss works such as Los de abajo,
which was written in 1915, right in the midst of armed struggle, through to
novels published in the 1980s, such as Como agua para chocolate.
The course also focuses on the important role that visual culture played in
legitimising the Revolution and creating a sense of national identity which
included the poor and marginalised, for example through the work of muralists
like Diego Rivera. By examining the cultural responses to the Mexican
Revolution, this course seeks to analyse how the Revolution is mythologized,
explained, critiqued and justified in literature and culture, how it depicts
disillusionment with its promises, and issues of race, class, gender and
sexuality as they relate to Mexican history.   Texts: Mariano Azuela, Los de
abajo (1915)Mexican Muralism – (from 1920)Ángeles Mastretta, Arráncame la vida (1986)Juan Rulfo, El llano
en llamas – (1953)Laura Esquivel, Como agua para chocolate (1989)Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Term 1 Tutor: Professor Stephen HartAssessment: One 2,500 word coursework essay (50%) plus one unseen desk exam (50%).Module Description: This module analyses the expression of the
supernatural in Latin American culture, with particular reference to the ways
in which the economy of the supernatural is contrasted with natural law, how it
is understood and valued by individuals and specific social groups.

 Bibliography (primary
secondary material marked with an asterisk)     Amerindian Religion and Culture Bourget, Steve, Sex, Death and Sacrifice in Moche Religion and Visual Culture
(Austin: University of Texas Press, 2006). *Coe, Michael,
The Maya, 8th ed. (London: Thames
& Hudson, 2011). Carmichael,
Elizabeth & Chloe Sayer, The Skeleton
at the Feast: The Day of the Dead in Mexico (London: British Museum Press,
1991). *Davies,
Nigel, The Incas (Boulder, CO:
University of Boulder Press, 2007). Hemming,
John, The Conquest of the Incas
(London: Thames and Hudson, 2011). Isbell,
William H., Mummies and Mortuary
Monuments: A Postprocessual Prehistory of Central Andean Social Organisation
(Austin: University of Texas Press, 1997). León-Portilla,
Miguel, The Broken Spears: The Aztec
Account of the Conquest of Mexico (New York: Beacon Press, 2007). *Townsend,
Richard F., The Aztecs (London:
Thames & Hudson, 2010). Santa
Rosa de Lima  Bermúdez,
José Manuel, Vida de la gloriosa virgen
dominicana Santa Rosa de Sta. Maria, natural de Lima i Patrona Principal de las
Américas (Lima: Imprenta de los Huérfanos, 1827). Catá
de Calella, José Antonio, Vida portentosa
de la escalarecida virgen Santa Rosa de Santa María, vulgo Santa Rosa de Lima
(Lima: Librería y tipografía católica, 1886). Graziano, Frank, Wounds of Love: The Mystical Marriage of Saint Rose of Lima (New
York: Oxford University Press, 2004). Greer,
Allan & Jodi Bilinkoff (eds), Colonial
Saints: Discovering the Holy in the Americas (New York: Routledge, 2003). Hampe
Martínez, Teodoro, Santidad e identidad
criolla: estudio del proceso de canonización de Santa Rosa (Cuzco: Centro
de Estudios Regionales Andinos 'Bartolomé de las Casas', 1998). Iwasaki Cauti, Fernando, 'Mujeres al borde de
la perfección: Rosa de Santa Mara y las alumbradas de Lima', in Luis
Millones (ed.), Una partecita del cielo:
la vida de Santa Rosa de Lima narrada por Gonzalo de la Maza a quien ella
llamaba padre (Lima: Editorial Horizonte, 1993), pp. 71-110. *Millones,
Luis (ed.), Una partecita del cielo: la
vida de Santa Rosa de Lima narrada por Gonzalo de la Maza a quien ella llamaba
padre (Lima: Editorial Horizonte, 1993). Ronald
Morgan, Spanish American Saints and the
Rhetoric of Identity, 1600-1810 (Tucson: University of Arizona Press,
2002). *Mujilla
Puntilla, Ramón, Rosa limensis: mística,
política e iconografía en torno a la patrona de América (Mexico City: Fondo
de Cultura Economica, 2005), 2nd ed. Myers, Ann Kathleen, Neither Saints nor Sinners: Writing the Lives of Women in Spanish
America (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2003). *Myers,
Kathleen Ann, '"Redeemer of America": Rosa de Lima, the Dynamics of
Identity, and Canonisation', in Allan Greer & Jodi Blinkoff (eds), Colonial Saints: Discovering the Holy in the
Americas (New York: Routledge, 2003), pp. 251-275. Po-chia
Hsia, R., The World of Catholic Renewal,
1540-1670 (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2005). The
Virgin Mary in Mexico and Cuba: Santería Ashcroft,
Bill, Gareth Griffiths and Helen Tiffin, The
Post-colonial Studies Reader (London: Routledge, 1998), pp. 24–28.  Williams, Raymond, ‘The Analysis of Culture’,
in The Long Revolution (London: Chatto and Windus, 1961), pp. 57–88. *Ayoinde,
Christine, Afro-Cuban Religiosity, Revolution, and National Identity (Gainesville, FL: University Press of
Florida, 2004). *Bolívar,
Natalia, Santa Bárbara, Changó ¿sincretismo religioso? (Havana:
Editorial José Martí, 2007). Fernández
Olmos, Margarite, and Lizabeth Paravisini-Gebert, Creole Religions of
the Caribbean (New York: New York University Press, 2003). Gramsci,
Antonio, Selections from Cultural Writings, eds David Forgacs and G.
Nowell-Smith (London: Lawrence and Wishart, 1985). Holbraad, Martin, ‘Religious “Speculation”:
The Rise of Ifá Cults and Consumption in Post-Soviet Cuba’, Journal of Latin
American Studies, 36
(2004), 643–63. Hart, Stephen,
‘How Popular is Cuban Popular Culture?’, in  Latin American Popular
Culture: Politics, Media, Affect, eds Geoffrey Kantaris & Rory O’Bryen
(Woodbridge: Tamesis, 2013), 93-112. Iannaccone,
Laurence, ‘Religious Extremism: The Good, the Bad, and the Deadly’. Special
Issue of Public Choice (2009). Ed. Charles Rowley.   Spivak,
Gayatri, ‘Can the Subaltern Speak?’ In The Post-Colonial Studies
Reader. Ed.  Gabriel
García Márquez: Cien años de soledad   García
Marquez, Gabriel, Vivir para contarla
(Barcelona: Bruguera, 2002). Martin,
Gerald, Gabriel García Márquez: A Life
(London: Bloomsbury, 2008) Hart, Stephen,
Gabriel García Márquez (London:
Reaktion Books, 2010). Hart,
Stephen (edited with Wen-chin Ouyang), A
Companion to Magical Realism (Woodbridge: Tamesis, 2005). Swanson,
Philip (ed.), The Cambridge Companion to
Gabriel García Márquez (Cambridge: CUP, 2010) Kristal, Efraín, 'Lessons from the Golden Age
in Gabriel García Márquez's Living to
Tell the Tale', in A Companion to
Magical Realism, eds Stephen M. Hart & Wen-chin Ouyang (Woodbridge:
Tamesis, 2005), pp. 88-97. Bell, Michael, Gabriel García Márquez: Solitude and
Solidarity (London, 1993) *Harold
Bloom (ed.), Gabriel García Márquez's
'One Hundred Years of Solitude' (Philadelphia, PA, 2003) Bowers,
Maggie, Magic(al) Realism (London:
Routledge, 2004). Faris,
Wendy, Ordinary Enchantments: Magical
Realism and the Remystification of Narrative (Nashville: Vanderbilt
University Press, 2004). *Parkinson Zamora, Lois, and Wendy Faris
(eds), Magical Realism: Theory, History,
Community (Durham, NC: Duke University Press, 1995). Dash, Michael,
'Marvellous Realism: The Way out of "Negritude"', in The Post-Colonial Studies Reader, eds
Bill Ashcroft, Gareth Griffiths and Helen Tiffin (London: Routledge, 1995), pp.
199-201. Durix,
Jean-Pierre, Mimesis, Genres and
Post-Colonial Discourse: Deconstructing Magical Realism (London: Macmillan,
1998). Chanady,
Amaryll Beatrice, Magical Realism and the
Fantastic: Resolved versus Unresolved Antinomy (New York: Garland, 1985). *Bell-Villada,
Gene H. (ed.), Gabriel García Márquez's
One Hundred Years of Solitude: A Casebook (Oxford, 2002). Rodríguez-Vergara, Isabel, El mundo satírico de Gabriel García Márquez
(Madrid, 1991). Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Term 2 

Tutor: Dr Tyler FisherAssessment: One 2,500-word coursework essay (50%) and one unseen desk examination (50%)Module Description:This module provides
a broad introduction to an important Spanish poetic genre, the romance or
Spanish ballad. The module traces the conventions of this verse form across six
centuries, from those composed on the frontier between Moorish and Christian
Spain, to those that evolved in the New World and those that reflect
avant-garde aesthetics in the early twentieth century. This involves critical
commentary on particular texts and broader study of the romancero in
its varying cultural contexts. Students will have the opportunity to analyze
recurring motifs and to identify innovations in this enduring genre, while
honing their critical writing skills. A creative component of this module
encourages students to engage with the ballad tradition by composing their own
imitative romances.The
course tutor convenes and facilitates lectures and seminars. All course
information will be made available via Moodle, as well as many of the primary
texts for lectures and seminars. You may start reading for this module before
classes begin. Key readings are marked with an asterisk in the list of texts.Texts: *Romancero, ed. Paloma Díaz-Mas. The
Spanish Ballad in the Golden Age, ed. Nigel Griffin, Clive Griffin, et al. Romancero
tradicional de América,
ed. Mercedes Díaz Roig. *Antonio
Machado, 'La tierra de Alvargonzález'. José
Peón del Valle, Cuba victrix: Romancero de las guerras de independencia. *Federico
García Lorca, Romancero gitano.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2 Tutor: Various. The convenor is Dr Zoltán
Biedermann Teaching structure: a series of 15 one-hour lectures and 14 one-hour seminars
spread over Terms 1 and 2. Assessment: Coursework 1 (1,500 words): 40%; Coursework 2 (2,000
words) 60%Module Description: This course introduces students
to key aspects of global Hispanic history and culture from the late medieval
period to the 21st century, and acts as a foundation on which
students in the Department will build throughout the rest of their degree. It
exposes students to a wide variety of materials – poetry, prose fiction, essay
and film – and explores different ways of making sense of them through
historical contextualisation, close reading and critical analysis. Students
gain a critical appreciation of the canon of Spanish and Latin American
Studies, whilst also developing the tools to explore less canonical authors and
works. In the seminars, we will focus on discussing the primary materials and
develop key skills in reading and writing. This module is team-taught by
permanent members of academic staff, allowing students to become acquainted
with a wide range of research methods and approaches. It runs over two terms,
enabling students to engage in in-depth readings of the literary and critical
materials, including some longer texts in Spanish, and in a systematic
development of skills that will prove useful throughout their entire BA
programme. A series of films will be screened as part of the module, some of
which are studied in Term 2.  Course
materials: A list of course materials is
available on Moodle, and many of the materials will be uploaded there. Key
items will be available for purchase at the Gower Street/Tavistock Place branch
of Waterstone’s.  Set Readings and Viewings N.B.
Please ensure you come to each lecture and seminar having read or viewed the
prescribed material for that class, detailed below.Term 1 Lecture
1: Introduction (Dr Zoltán Biedermann) · Jean
Dangler, ‘Edging Toward Iberia’, Diacritics, 36: 3/4 (2006) “Theories of
Medieval Iberia”, 12-26. http://www.jstor.org/stable/20204139 Seminar 1: Introduction · Reading as for Lecture 1. Lecture 2: Society and
Literature in the Golden Age:
Lazarillo de Tormes (I) (Dr Alexander
Samson) · R. O. Jones, ed, La Vida de
Lazarillo de Tormes y Sus Fortunas y Adversidades  (Manchester: Manchester University Press, 1966). Prólogo, Tratados
1-3. · Javier Herrero, ‘Renaissance Poverty
and Lazarillo's Family: The Birth of the Picaresque Genre’ Publications of
the Modern Language Association of America (1979), 876-886. Seminar 2: Society and Literature in the
Golden Age: Lazarillo de Tormes (I) · Close reading of Prologue.   Lecture 3: Society and Literature in the
Golden Age: Lazarillo de Tormes (II) (Dr
Alexander Samson) · Tratado 5.  · Thomas Hanrahan, ‘Lazarillo de Tormes:
Erasmian Satire or Protestant Reform?.’ Hispania
(1983), 333-339. Seminar 3: Society and
Literature in the Golden Age: Lazarillo
de Tormes (II)  · Reading as for Lecture 3.   Lecture 4: Contact
and Conquest in the Americas (I)
(Dr Adrian Pearce) · Matthew Restall, ‘A Handful of
Adventurers: The Myth of Exceptional Men’, in Seven Myths of the Spanish Conquest (Oxford: Oxford University
Press, 2003), chap. 1.   Seminar 4: Contact
and Conquest in the Americas (I) · Cristóbal
Colón, ‘Carta a los Reyes’, 4 Mar. 1493, in B. W. Ife (ed.), Letters from America: Columbus’s First Accounts
of the 1492 Voyage (London: King’s College London, 1992), pp. 24-43.   Lecture 5: Contact
and Conquest in the Americas (II) (Dr Adrian Pearce) · Camilla Townsend, ‘Burying the White
Gods: New Perspectives on the Conquest of Mexico’, American Historical Review 108: 3 (June 2003), 659-87.   Seminar 5: Contact
and Conquest in the Americas (II) · Hernán Cortés Cartas
y documentos, ed. by Mario Hernández Sánchez-Barba (Mexico City: Editorial
Porrúa, 1963), pp. 58-60. · Bernal Días del Castillo, Historia Verdadera de la Conquista de la Nueva  España (Barcelona: Linkgua Ediciones, 2007), chap. 37,
pp. 153-7. · Miguel León-Portilla (ed.), Visión de los vencidos (Madrid: Dastín, 2000), chap. 8, pp. 111-14.   Lecture 6: Identity and Gender in
Colonial Spanish America (I) (Dr Adrian Pearce) · Susan Migden Socolow, ‘Women, Marriage,
and Family’, in The Women of Colonial
Latin America (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2015), chap. 5.   Seminar 6: Identity and Gender in
Colonial Spanish America (I) · Sor
Juana Inés De la Cruz, ‘Respuesta a Sor Filotea’, 1 Mar. 1691, http://www.ensayistas.org/antologia/XVII/sorjuana/sorjuana1.htm.      Lecture 7: Identity and Gender in
Colonial Spanish America (II) (Dr Adrian Pearce) · Reading tbc.   Seminar 7: Identity and Gender in
Colonial Spanish America (II) · Simón Bolívar, ‘La carta de Jamaica’, Kingston,
Jamaica, 6 Sept. 1815, available at: http://www.archivodellibertador.gob.ve/escritos/buscador/spip.php?article1268.
     Term 2 Lecture 1: Nation Building in 19th
Century Spanish America: Sab (Dr Debbie
Martin) · Gertrudis Gómez de Avellaneda, Sab, ed. by Catherine Davies (Manchester:
Manchester University Press, 2001). Seminar 1: Nation Building in 19th Century Spanish America: Sab · Doris Sommer, ‘Sab C’est Moi’, in Foundational Fictions: The National Romances
of Latin America (Berkeley: University of California Press, 1991), pp. 114-37. · Close reading section of Sab tbc.   Lecture 2: Legacies of Decline: Spain at
the Turn of the 20th Century (I) (Dr Gareth Wood) · Miguel de Unamuno, En torno al casticismo, with a particular focus
on ch.  5.
 · Emilia Pardo Bazán, articles published
under the byline ‘La vida contemporánea’ in La Ilustración Artística,
numbers 821, 853, 855, 857, 861, and 863. Accessible via the Hemeroteca Digital
section of the Biblioteca Nacional website: www.bn.es Seminar 2: Legacies of Decline:
Spain at the Turn of the 20th Century (I) · Sebastian Balfour, ‘Riot, Regeneration
and Reaction: Spain in the Aftermath of the 1898 Disaster’, The Historical
Journal, 38:2 (1995), 405-23. · David Henn, ‘Reflections on the War of
1898 in Pardo Bazán’s Fiction and Travel Chronicles’, Modern Language Review,
94 (1999), 415-25. Lecture 3: Legacies of Decline:
Spain at the Turn of the 20th Century (II): ‘La tierra de Alvargonzález’  (Dr Gareth Wood) · Antonio Machado, ‘La tierra de Alvargonzález’, anthologized in Campos de
Castilla.  · The prose version of that same text, to
be made available via moodle. Seminar 3: Legacies of Decline:
Spain at the Turn of the 20th Century (II): ‘La tierra de Alvargonzález’  · Eric Southworth, ‘The Coherence of
Machado’s “La tierra de Alvargonzález”’, in The Discerning Eye: Studies
Presented to Robert Pring- Mill
on his Seventieth Birthday, ed. by Nigel Griffin and others  (Llangrannog: Dolphin, 1994), pp. 131-48. · Arthur Terry, A Companion to Campos
de Castilla (London: Grant & Cutler, 1973), chap. 3. Lecture
4: The Mexican Revolution and its Moral Repercussions
(1910–1940): El llano en llamas (Dr Humberto Núñez-Faraco) · Juan
Rulfo ‘El llano en llamas’ in El llano en
llamas (any edition) [a digital copy of this short story to be supplied on
Moodle) · The
Storm that Swept Mexico. Paradigm Productions, 2010. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pVWcgOcvgV0 · Marta Portal, Rulfo: dinámica de la violencia (Madrid: Ediciones de
Cultura Hispánica, 1990), pp. 97–107. Seminar
4: The Mexican Revolution and its Moral Repercussions
(1910–1940): El llano en llamas · Juan
Rulfo ‘Luvina’ and ‘Nos han dado la tierra’ in El llano en llamas (any edition) [digital copies of these short
stories to be supplied on moodle] · Jorge Rodríguez Padrón, ‘El más allá de Juan Rulfo (Algunas notas en torno
a Luvina)’, Cuadernos Hispanoamericanos, 421–423 (1985) 249–59. · Marta Portal, Rulfo: dinámica de la violencia (Madrid: Ediciones de
Cultura Hispánica, 1990), pp. 53–59, 117–24. Lecture
5: Ethnicity and Identity in the Poetry of
Nicolás Guillén (1930–1954) (Dr Humberto Núñez-Faraco) · Nicolás Guillén, ‘La canción del bongó’, ‘Canto negro’,
‘Sensemayá’, ‘No sé por qué piensas tú’. In Suma poética [digital
copies of these poems to be supplied on Moodle] · Keith Ellis, ‘Images of Black People in
the Poetry of Nicolás Guillén’, Afro-Hispanic Review, 7 (1988) 19–22. · Adriana Tous, La poesía de Nicolás Guillén (Madrid: Ediciones
Cultura Hispánica, 1971), pp. 93–114. Seminar
5: Ethnicity and Identity in the Poetry of
Nicolás Guillén (1930–1954) · Nicolás Guillén, ‘El abuelo’, ‘El apellido’. In Suma poética [digital copies of these poems to be supplied on
Moodle] · Roberto Fernández Retamar, El son de vuelo popular (La Habana:
UNEAC, 1972), pp. 45–60. · Gustavo Pérez Firmat, ‘Nicolás Guillén
Between the Son and the Sonnet’, Callaloo, 31 (1987) 318–28. Lecture
6: Cinema, Politics and Desire in Post-Civil War Spain: El espíritu de la colmena (Dr Debbie Martin) · El espíritu de la colmena. Dir Víctor Erice. Spain: Elías Querejeta
Producciones Cinematográficas, 1973. [copies available in the Library and Dept. office] Seminar 6: Cinema, Politics and Desire
in Post-Civil War Spain: El espíritu de
la colmena  · Rob Stone, Spanish Cinema (Harlow:
Longman/Pearson Education, 2002), pp. 88-94.  · Chris Perriam,  ‘El espíritu de la colmena: Memory,
Nostalgia, Trauma', in Burning Darkness: A Half Century of Spanish Cinema, ed. by Joan Ramon Resina (New York: SUNY Press, 2008), pp.
61-81. · Film sequence for analysis, tbc.   Lecture
7: Cinema, Politics and Desire in Early 21st Century Argentina: La ciénaga (Dr Debbie Martin) · La ciénaga.
Dir. Lucrecia Martel. (Argentina,
France, Spain: Lita Stantic Producciones, 2001). [copies available in the Library
and Dept. office] Seminar
7: Cinema, Politics and Desire in Early 21st Century Argentina: La ciénaga · David Oubiña, Estudio
crítico sobre La ciénaga (Buenos Aires: Picnic Editorial 2009), pp. 15-35. · Film
sequence for analysis: Opening sequence (00 – 3.50 mins).  Lecture
8: The Idea of Latin America (Dr Claire Lindsay) · Reading
tbc. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				DUTC2001 - Dutch Language 2DUTC2101 - At the Crossroads of Europe: Belgium, The Netherlands and Luxembourg in the 20th and 21st CenturiesDUTC2203 -Twentieth Century
Dutch Literature I: Themes DUTC2300 – Multiculturalism and IdentityFREN2001 - Use of FrenchFREN2002 - French OralFREN2101 - Introduction to Literary TheoryFREN2102 - The Medieval PeriodFREN2103 - The Renaissance PeriodFREN2104 - The Seventeenth CenturyFREN2105 - Enlightenment & Revolution: the 18th Century FREN2106 - The 19th CenturyFREN2107 - Exploration of Self and Form: the Contemporary Period FREN2108 - France: Culture & SocietyFREN2110 - Contesting Frenchness: Francophone LiteraturesGERM1001 - Modern German LanguageGERM1104 - Introduction to German Film since 1945GERM1106 - An Introduction to German LinguisticsGERM2002 - Modern German
Language II GERM2103 - Aspects of 20th Century German
History GERM2105 - History of the German LanguageGERM2106 - Love, Violence &
Laughter: Medieval and Early Modern German Literature and Culture up to 1740 GERM2107 - Debating
Enlightenment: Literature and Culture 1740 - 1870GERM2108 - The Challenge of Modernity: Literature and Culture from 1870 to the Present GERM2111 - Metropolen ITAL2020 - Second Year Italian Language ITAL2106 – Italian RomanticismITAL2112 – Futurism in ItalyITAL2113 - Docudrama in
Contemporary Italian CinemaITAL2116 - Fascist anti-Semitism and the Race Laws of 1938: origins, application and memory ITAL2117 - Writing Women in Renaissance ItalySCAN2001 - Intermediate
DanishSCAN2002 - Intermediate
SwedishSCAN2003 - Intermediate
NorwegianSCAN2004 - Intermediate Modern IcelandicSCAN2222 - Scandinavian
Literature in ContextSCAN2402 - Intermediate Old NorseSCAN7203 - An Extended Essay in Scandinavian StudiesSCAN7214 - Vikings and Valkyries in Contemporary Culture SCAN7310 - Politics and Society in the Nordic Countries, 1990s and AfterSCAN7405 - Viking-Age ScandinaviaSCAN7540 - Nordic CinemaSPAN2001 - Spanish Language
IISPAN2103 - What Women Want: La RegentaSPAN2109 - Women's Writing in
Latin America ISPAN2110 - Women's Writing in Latin America IISPAN2120 - The Essay in Spanish AmericaSPAN2121 - Introduction to Latin American CinemaSPAN2307 - The Subaltern in Latin American CultureSPAN2320 - The Literature of the Spanish InquisitionSPAN2400 - History of Colonial Latin AmericaSPAN2401 - History of Spain in the 20th CenturySPAN7302 - The Theatre in
Spain's Golden Age These courses are not available to joint honours students.PORT2010 - Intermediate
Portuguese PORT2201 - The Golden Age of
Portuguese Travel Literature PORT2310 - 20th-Century Brazilian Literary Works into Film These courses are not available to joint honours students.HIST6410 - History of Latin America c.1830-c.1930 Please note - this 1.0cu module is subject to availability (please be aware the History
department may not be in a position to approve/reject requests until the Friday
before the week teaching commences) and approval from the SELCS UG Tutor.  Guidance on registering for History modules.LITC2001 Imitation,
     Invention, AuthorshipLITC2002 Word, Image,
     SoundLITC2004 Urban Tales: The City in East Asian Literature LITC2005 Consumer Culture: Literature, History, Theory   Additional Comparative Literature Modules available in our partner departments.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0
course units / 15 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level
5)
 Total Learning Hours: 300
Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2 Tutor: Christine Sas and language assistantsTeaching structure: Four hours a week are devoted to extending knowledge and proficiency of language across a variety of genres and discourses. One hour per week is devoted specifically to listening and speaking tasks.Assessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (35%); one oral examination (30%); and continuous assessment including vocabulary and listening tests, essays and grammar assignments (35%).Module Description:Topics cover current affairs, debates and cultural issues in the Low Countries. Language tasks in this course require a more sustained presentation of information and argumentation, in both speaking and writing.  There are additional conversation sessions with a student language assistant.  Students are expected to take increasing responsibility for identifying their own strengths and weaknesses and for taking remedial action as appropriate. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Students should obtain a copy of Routledge Intensive Dutch Course (London/New York: Routledge 2006). In the second term, students will be required to purchase Wijze Woorden (Amsterdam: Intertaal 2002), a Dutch academic vocabulary textbook, in preparation for the year abroad.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(DUTC2101A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars
take place at the same times as DUTC2101.)Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level
5)
  Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1 Tutor: Ulrich TiedauAssessment: DUTC2101: two 1500 word essays (25% each) and one unseen two-hour written examination (50%).DUTC2101A: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Available to: While it is mainly aimed at students of Dutch, the module is open to all students with an interest in the 20th and 21st century history of these two neighbouring countries of the UK. Knowledge of Dutch is not required.Module Description: This is a module about political, social, cultural and economic change in the Benelux countries from the inter-war period to the present. Among the themes covered are: the crisis of democracy in the 1930s; collaboration, resistance and accommodation during the German occupation of World War II; Dutch, Belgian and Luxembourgian post-war politics;  the Cold War and European integration; development of the modern welfare state; cultural revolution and new social movements in the 1960s; linguistic and inter-communal tensions and federalisation of Belgium; and immigration and the recent 'crisis of multiculturalism' in the Netherlands.The module aims to:Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:The following textbook, a standard history, provides back-up to the programme (copies of which are held in the College library):For a shorter survey of the history of the Benelux countries, please check out the following work:The module uses Online teaching and learning resources that are available on Moodle.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(DUTC2203A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars
take place at the same times as DUTC2203.)Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level
5)
  Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1 Tutor: Hans DemeyerAssessment: DUTC2203: one 2500 word coursework essay (70%); and one seminar presentation (30%).DUTC2203A: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module Description: This module explores the theme of identity and community in the
literature of the Netherlands and Flanders. We will look at fiction that deals
with questions of belonging, power, diversity and mechanisms of in- and
exclusion. The module will start from contemporary reflections on the loss of a
sense of community within a context of globalization and will then return to
the beginning of the 20th century. Our module will follow the course
of history by discussing literary texts that correspond to modernism (and its
utopias), to the disillusion after World War II and to postmodernism (and its
unravelling of utopias). We will analyse processes of identification (gender,
class, religion, politics, race) and the shifts in sense of time, space and
belonging throughout the twentieth century.  The primary texts have been chosen with students' language competence in
mind. Primary
Reading may include (fragments of):- Peter Verhelst, Geschiedenis van een berg. - Ferdinand Bordewijk, Blokken - Gerard Reve, De avonden - Paul Mennes, Soap - Cees Nooteboom, Rituelen - Willem Elsschot, Het dwaallichtPlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level
5)
  Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term: Term 2 
 
 Tutor: Christine Sas Assessment: two essays weighed at 30% and 70% eachAvailable to: While it is mainly aimed at students of Dutch, the module is open to all students. Knowledge of Dutch is not required.Module Description: In this course we look at debates surrounding multiculturalism,
identity, citizenship and immigration. We look at different interpretations of
multiculturalism as philosophical perspectives on the relationships between
different cultural communities. The course explores how these perspectives have
been acted out across time and place, from the ‘melting pot’ idea in the US in
the early 20th century to governmental policies encouraging immigrants to
maintain their home language and culture. The focus will be on the changing
policies and views on the multicultural debate in the Netherlands, but this
will be set in a global context. We also explore the notions of national
identity which are evoked in the multicultural debate and look at government
and media responses to this, such as the implementation of the canon of the
Dutch history as part of the curriculum at schools. The module
explores the backlash discourses around multiculturalism which have become more
and more prominent over the last few years. Students will read
academic, media reports, and will also look at film, art and
autobiographies where appropriate.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Full yearConvenor: Marie FournierTutor: various Assessment: one unseen three-hour written exam (100%). Satisfactory attendance and 
completion of the coursework are normally prerequisites for examination 
entry.Students must pass this module to progress onto their Year Abroad.Module Description:This second-year module requires students to respond in French to a 
variety of texts and other stimuli in linguistic situations such as 
dialogue, group presentation, synopsis, judgment etc. A variety of 
topics (all linked to French or francophone culture and actualités) will
 be covered.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.  The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Full yearConvenor: Ms Marie FournierTutor: various Assessment: twenty minute oral examination (100%).Module Description:This second-year module requires students to respond in French to a 
variety of texts and other stimuli in linguistic situations such as 
dialogue, group presentation, synopsis, judgment etc. A variety of 
topics (all linked to French or francophone culture and actualités) will
 be covered.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.  The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 1 Tutor: Mr James AgarAssessment: Two essays of 2000 words each (weighting 50% each) Module Description:This course aims
to contextualise and introduce key concepts in French postwar (literary) theory
by focusing on two of the key figures involved: Michel Foucault and Roland
Barthes. Post-war (literary) theory is characterized by an explosion in the
understanding of the ways literature, culture and thought can be approached and
conceptualized. The experience of literature is connected by these thinkers and
writers to experiences of philosophy, linguistics, sociology, history,
sexuality, as well as to the other arts.The first half of
term will focus on Michel Foucault, and his investigations of the ways in which
our understanding is structured by particular configurations of knowledge, and
the assumptions and desires which drive it. In the second half of term,
the course will focus on Roland Barthes, and the ways in which his
investigations into history, myth and ideology, for example, force readers into
an active kind of reading, and makes an engagement with writing a way of
resisting a range of cultural and ideological orthodoxies. The work of both
figures will be linked by their shared concern with issues of authority and
authorship, two areas of direct concern to literary study.The course will
be taught in a combination of tutor-led discussions and student-led
presentation and seminar debates. The aim is to engage with detailed close
reading of specific theoretical texts rather than presenting a wide overview of
the proliferating field of post-war theory and its approaches.The texts listed
below are the core texts for reading
and discussion. However, some will be discussed in more depth than others,
depending on the seminar format. There will also be some supplementary and
contextualising materials which will be required reading. Secondary reading
lists will be provided via Moodle. Set texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Jane GilbertTeaching structure: The term is divided into two halves: Christianity and its Others and The Court, Courtoisie and Courtly Love.Assessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (100%).Module Description:Christianity and its OthersIn
 the eleventh and twelfth centuries, energetic European expansion (in 
particular through the Crusades in Spain, North Africa, the Middle East 
and the Eastern Christian empire of Byzantium) coincided with the 
cultural development of vernacular French literature, which found many 
of its earliest resources in various non-Christian cultures (Latin, 
Arabic, Celtic). This module will explore some of the ways in which Old
 French literary texts represent Christians and the ‘pagans’ with whom 
they come into contact in encounters dramatized as violent, erotic 
and/or burlesque. We shall study epic, romance and comic texts. We shall
 analyse the kinds of desire engaged in the differing representations of
 the pagan other, and explore also how true to life (or otherwise – 
mainly otherwise!) these literary pagans were.The Court, Courtoisie and Courtly LoveThe
 Court provides the setting for much medieval literature. Often depicted
 as a luxurious place, the epitome of elegance and refinement, it is 
also seen as a destructive environment, full of jealousy, spite and 
scandal. We shall look at examples of literature produced for courts and
 depicting the people who live there. What are the pleasures of such a 
life, and what are its constraints? To what extent is life governed by 
codes of courtesy, and what problems do these codes create? In 
particular we shall examine the code of courtly love, what it was, and 
how it was problematised in some of the key works of medieval 
literature.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Christianity and its OthersThe Court, Courtoisie and Courtly LovePlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Thibaut Maus de RolleyAssessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (100%) Module Description: This module focuses on Renaissance
discourses of love: we will read the love poetry of Pierre de Ronsard (Les Amours, 1552-84) and Louise Labé (Sonnets, 1555), as well as Marguerite de
Navarre’s collection of short stories, the Heptaméron
(1559). (We will start with Ronsard, followed by Labé, and then Navarre.)
This will be an opportunity to explore key aspects of the period: love, of
course, its different conceptions, themes and rituals; but also sex; the representation of women and of the body; imitation; petrarchism;
neoplatonism; eroticism; poetry
and the visual arts.  In doing so, we will pay particular
attention to three questions: How is it possible for a poet to do new things by
imitating other poets, and to express something apparently as intimate and
subjective as love by repeating familiar forms, words and images? What happens
when women write in forms that had traditionally been used by men, and from
passive objects of desire, suddenly become the active subjects of an erotic and
artistic discourse? What do these literary discourses teach us – or forget to
teach us – about the social and cultural history of love and sex in the
Renaissance?Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please make sure you purchase the recommended editions. Further secondary reading will be
provided in due course. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2Tutor: To be confirmed Teaching structure: SeminarsAssessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (100%).Module Description:In the first part of the course, we will read a range of plays that raise questions about female desire and the place of women in state politics, the political impact of revenge and clemency, and the role of religion. To portray power on stage is to some extent to question its foundation, and we will explore the ways theatre reflected upon the political while staging gender issues.The seventeenth-century also saw the rise of new forms of expression. In the second part of the course we will take on the new social formations of court culture under Louis XIV. Lafayette’s novel will introduce us to the claustrophobic milieu of social espionage, while La Fontaine’s witty and sophisticated animal fables will guide us through a world of savage desires. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Kevin Inston Assessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (100%).Module Description:The socially critical and
intellectually progressivist literature called 'Enlightenment writing',
published under, and against, the Ancien Régime, is much discussed for its role
in fostering the collective atmosphere of the French Revolution of 1789, as
well as the modern democratic and imperialist institutions that emerged after
the Revolution. For today’s specialists, the writings studied in this module
had little or no impact on the ensuing social institutions, but certainly helped
to give birth to the egalitarian sensibilities, values and attitudes
fundamental to modern democracies. This module studies tensions and clashes
within the anti-authoritarian or non-authoritarian modes of writing, the
hybrid, transgressive uses of genre, aesthetic preoccupations, philosophical
and political principles and social critique contained in five controversial
works, as well as the reverberation of events.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2Tutors: Dr Roland Lack and Professor Andy LeakAssessment: one assessed 2000-word essay (50%) and one two hour unseen desk examination (50%)Module Description: Concentrating
on the novel, this module examines a series of major issues in relation to
nineteenth-century literature: its relations to revolution in the aesthetic,
political and social spheres; its awareness of the world beyond the frontiers
of Metropolitan France; its focus on the seemingly real and the everyday; its
formal experimentation; its preoccupation with the new category of experience
called ‘modernité’. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 1 Convenor: Professor Andrew LeakAssessment: two-hour written examination in term 3 (covering all components of FREN2107).Student workload:  prescribed reading; secondary reading as assigned; one practice essay; other work as assigned by course tutor.Module Description:This
module will examine four French texts from the twentieth century – a novel, a
piece of ‘life-writing’ and two influential theoretical texts. The focus of the
module will be on how these texts engage with modern forms of alienation. In so
doing, it will explore the implications of their innovation at the level of
form for the representation of the self.Set Texts:Roland Barthes, Mythologies
(Editions du Seuil, 1957)Georges Perec, Les
Choses (Julliard, 1965)Annie Ernaux, La
Place (Gallimard Folio, 1983)Guy Debord, La
Société du spectacle (Gallimard, 1993, 3rd Edition) [Also
available as a PDF at:http://classiques.uqac.ca/contemporains/debord_guy/societe_du_spectacle/societe_du_spectacle.pdf]Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2Tutor: Professor Philippe MarlièreTeaching structure: The module combines 10 lectures and 10 seminar classes.Assessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (100%).  Students will make one oral presentation at the beginning of a seminar class and submit a 1,500 word practice essay.Module Description:This module discusses the question of citizenship in 
multicultural France. It tackles the issues of immigration, nationality 
and citizenship in France, and looks at the French philosophy of 
integration through the study of the French republican tradition. Other 
topics on the module include the relationship between laïcité, the 
French politicised conception of secularism, and religion. The module 
concentrates on the legal, philosophical and political components of 
French citizenship and overall attempts to answer the following 
question: how to be French?It explores 
theoretical, historical and sociological aspects of the question; old 
and recent debates which revolve around the issue of French citizenship.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:All set texts and reading material (bibliography, 
practice essay questions, etc.) will be posted on Moodle by the 
beginning of Term 1.Background reading:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2Tutor: Professor Andrew LeakAssessment: two-hour desk examination (100%)Coursework: Students may be required to complete short written assignments or give presentations in class. Satisfactory attendance at classses is a prerequisite for entry into the assessment process.Module Description:This course aims to introduce a selection of
texts from twentieth-century francophone literature, examining the formal and
aesthetic preoccupations of francophone writings politically contesting
Frenchness. This course also explores the engagement of francophone writers
with a range of topics such as alienation, identity, tradition, modernity,
colonialism, ethnicity, sexuality, language, bilingualism and biculturalism.Set Texts:Supplementary Reading:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSTotal Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 2
Tutor: Dr Mererid Puw DaviesAssessment: 1 two-hour written examination 50%; 1 assessed essay (2,500 words) 50%, for which students will have access to DVD material. Module Description:This module will examine a representative selection of German films made,
mostly before 1989, by prominent post-war directors in the Federal Republic of
Germany, such as Herzog, Wenders, Fassbinder and Tykwer. These films pay
particular attention to German history and society and we will discuss as an
ongoing theme the ways in which they reflect contemporary perceptions of
Germany and  its troubled past. The course
will thus introduce students to post-war German culture more broadly, as well
as to techniques of film analysis. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course units / 7.5 ECTSTotal Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1Tutor: Dr Geraldine HoranAssessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay (50%); and one unseen two-hour written examination with three essays	(50%). **Module Description:The module will provide an introduction to linguistic concepts
              and topics which help us to understand the structure and use of
              the German language in contemporary times. The fields studied in
              the module include: phonetics and phonology; inflection and derivation;
              syntax; lexical structure, lexical borrowing, and sociolinguistic
              variation. Although the main focus of the module will be on the
              German language, comparisons with contemporary English will also
              be made where relevant. Primary material will be taken from newspapers
              and magazines, television and the internet where necessary. Students
              will be encouraged to find their own examples of linguistic phenomena
              from these sources. An essential part of the module will involve
              background reading of secondary material to consolidate understanding
              of guiding linguistic theories and principles.
Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: * You should purchase a copy of this if possible.  ** Please note that this module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This
module is for Year 2 students who studied GERM1001 in their First Year. It is
not available to students who studied GERM1002.Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course units / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level 5)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1 and Term 2 
Tutor: various
Teaching structure: One
hour per week will be devoted to English-German translation and a
second hour to German-English translation and reading comprehension.
Assessment: one unseen
three-hour written examination involving translation into German (30%)
translation into English (30%) and one comprehension passage (30%); and coursework (10%).Module Description:This module builds on work completed in
the first year, using translation and comprehension exercises to
enhance fluency in reading, writing and understanding contemporary
German, as well as continuing to explore its relation to English. Passages for translation and comprehension will include contemporary
literary, historical and journalistic texts.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level 5)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1
Tutor: Professor Mark HewitsonTeaching structure: Term1 2-hour weekly seminar taught in English consisting of lectures, class
discussions and student presentations. Moodle to be used as a repository for
reading materials as well as for preparatory assignments.
Course Requirement: One presentation, three thinkpieces, one practice essay
Assessment: One take-home paper (100%)Module Description:In this class, students will grapple
with the significance of the Weimar and Nazi eras for modern German history.
 Topics will include the characteristic features of Weimar culture and
politics, the origins of the National Socialist movement and its rise to power,
the National Socialists’ utopian vision and their various efforts to implement
it, and the relationship between state and society.  Students will also
consider the nature of everyday life, the persecution of Jews and other
minorities, the uses of terror, the horrific culmination of the Nazi regime’s
ideological goals in the Second World War and the Holocaust, and, finally, the
memory of the period.   Upon successful
completion of the class, students will be able to explain political and social
dynamics at work in Weimar and Nazi Germany, discuss historiographical trends
relating to the era, make effective use of secondary and primary sources, and
present a coherent historical analysis in written and oral form. This will
allow students to historicise the period and critically comment on the ways
that it continues to shape contemporary society in Germany, Britain, and
beyond.  Preparatory
reading and set texts: Bergen, D., The Holocaust: A New
History (2008). Bessel, R. (ed.), Life in the Third Reich
(1987). Burleigh, M. and W. Wipperman, The Racial
State: Germany 1933-45 (1991). Caplan, J. (ed.), Nazi Germany (The Short Oxford History of Germany)
(2008). Crew, D. (ed.), Nazism and German Society 1933-1945 (1994).  Evans, R. J., The Coming of the Third Reich / The Third Reich
in Power / The Third Reich at War (2004-2008). Friedländer, S., Nazi Germany and the Jews, 2 vols. (1997, 2007). Gay, P., Weimar Culture: The Outsider as Insider (1974). Gregor, N. (ed.) Nazism (2000). Kershaw, I., The Nazi Dictatorship: Problems and Perspectives of
Interpretation, 4th ed. (2000). McElligott, A., Weimar Germany (Short Oxford History of Germany)
(2009). Overy, R., The Third Reich: A Chronicle (2011). Smith, H.W., The Oxford Handbook of
Modern German History (2011). Weitz, E. D., Weimar Germany: Promise and Tragedy (2007). Williamson, D. G., The
Third Reich (Seminar Studies in History), 4th ed. (2011).   Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate level (level 5)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: term 2
Tutor: Dr Geraldine HoranAssessment: one
assessed 2,500 word essay (50%); and one unseen two-hour examination (50%).
Three essays on topics covered in the course will be written in the
examination. You may not answer on the same topic of your assessed essay.Module Description: Have you ever wondered
where the German language came from, what it means that German belongs to the
'Germanic family of languages', or why there is High and Low German? This
module aims to provide some answers. We will chart emergence of the German
language from its pre-historic Indo-European beginnings to its establishment as
a major literary, philosophical and international language of the modern age.
The course will be divided in to four major sections: From Indo-European to Old
High German; Characteristics of Medieval German; Early New High German;
Developments in New High German the present day.   Preparatory reading and set texts:   Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level 5)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1 and Term 2
Tutor: Dr Sebastian CoxonTeaching structure: The module is conducted through a mixture of lecture
and discussion classes; one hour per week over two terms. 
Assessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay (50%); and one unseen two-hour
written examination (50%).Note: 

This module is not available to students who
took GERM1002 in Year 1 Module Description: This module will cover major
narrative texts from the Middle Ages and the Early Modern period. Consideration
will be given to both predominant themes (courtliness and heroism; conflicting
demands of love and society; transgression) and broader literary theoretical
questions (alterity; developments in medieval narrative technique; textual
in/stability).  Students will have plenty of
opportunity to learn to read medieval texts in the original. Preparatory Reading and Set
Texts: · Topic I: Das
Nibelungenlied. Nach der Handschrift B, ed. Ursula
Schulze, Stuttgart 2011etc (Reclam 18914) · Topic II: Wernher der
Gärtner: Helmbrecht, ed. Fritz
Tschirch, Stuttgart 1974etc (Reclam 9498) · Topic III: Hartmann
von Aue: Iwein, ed. Rüdiger Krohn, Stuttgart 2008etc (Reclam
18530) Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level 5)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1 and Term 2
Tutor: Reinier van StratenAssessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay	(50%); one unseen two-hour written examination	(50%).Module Description:This module will examine a representative selection of
German literature from the Enlightenment to the late 19th century, focusing on
the question how important literary epochs, from the Enlightenment itself to
Poetic Realism, have engaged with and 'debated' the concept of Enlightenment.
The module introduces students to texts by the century's most acknowledged authors,
including Kant, Lessing, Goethe, Schiller, Eichendorff, Heine, Kleist, Büchner,
and Keller. The module thus offers a broad overview over and explicitly links
the century's most important literary and intellectual movements, while at the
same time complementing the core modules GERM2106- Love, Violence and Laughter: Medieval and Early Modern German Literature and Culture up to 1740 and GERM2108- The Challenge of Modernity: Literature and Culture from 1870 to the Present.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Recommended English translations for ab initio students will be confirmed in due
course. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level 5)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1 and Term 2
Tutor: Dr Annie RingAssessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay (50%); one unseen two-hour written examination (50%). **Module Description:This course explores some of
the most exciting - and disturbing - ideas and artworks of the fast-moving
modern age. It reflects the ways in which, from the late nineteenth-century
onwards, the German-speaking world seemed to be turned upside-down by shocking
historical events, radical ideas and new cultural forms. The works studied in
this course show how these developments could be experienced as exhilarating,
disturbing, liberating, traumatic - or all of these at once. The module begins
with writing from the German Empire after 1871, and then considers classic
texts of early modernism, to the Weimar years and the rise of Nazism, to the
Third Reich. Finally, it looks at important currents in cultural and
socio-political life of the post-1945 period.Primary
Reading/Viewing   · Walter Benjamin, ‘Das Kunstwerk im Zeitalter seiner
technischen Reproduzierbarkeit’ (1936) · Slatan Dudow, Bertolt Brecht et al., Kuhle Wampe oder Wem gehört die Welt
(film, 1932) · Theodor Fontane, Effi Briest (1896) · Günter Grass, Im
Krebsgang (2002) · Franz Kafka, Die
Verwandlung (1916) · Thomas Mann, Der
Tod in Venedig (1912) · Monika Maron, Pawels
Briefe (1999) · Friedrich Nietzsche, ‘Über Wahrheit und Lüge im
außermoralischen Sinne‘ (1873) · Leni Riefenstahl, Olympia (1938) · Rainer Maria Rilke, Neue Gedichte (1907) · Arthur Schnitzler, Reigen (1920) Feel free to
use any modern edition of the above texts. They should all be easily available
in paperback. Films will be made available to view.Primary Reading for ab initio students only  · Walter Benjamin, ‘The Work of Art in the Age of
Mechanical Reproduction‘ (1936), in Walter Benjamin, The Work of Art in the Age
of Mechanical Reproduction, trans. by J.A. Underwood (London: Penguin 2008),
pp. 1-50  · Theodor Fontane, Effi Briest (1896), trans. by Helen Chambers and Hugh Rorrison
(London: Penguin, 2000)  · Günter Grass, Crabwalk
(2002), trans. by Krishna Wilson (London: Faber and Faber, 2004)  · Franz Kafka, ‘The Metamorphosis’ (1915) in Franz
Kafka, The Metamorphosis and Other
Stories, trans. by Joyce Crick (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2009), pp.
29-74  · Thomas Mann, ‘Death in Venice’ (1912), in Thomas
Mann, Death in Venice and Other Stories,
trans. by David Luke (London: Vintage, 1998), pp. 197-267  · Monika Maron, Pavel’s
Letters, trans. by Brigitte Goldstein (London: Harvill, 2002) · Friedrich Nietzsche, ‘On Truth and Lies in a
Nonmoral Sense’ (1873), in From Modernism
to Postmodernism: An Anthology (expanded second edition), ed. by Lawrence
Cahoone (Oxford: Blackwell, 2003), pp. 109-16  · Rainer Maria Rilke, New Poems / Neue Gedichte (1907), trans. by Stephen Cohn
(Manchester: Carcanet, 2004)  · Arthur Schnitzler, ‘Round Dance’ (1920) in Arthur
Schnitzler, Round Dance and Other Plays,
trans. by J.M.Q. Davies (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2004)  Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:  ** Please note that this module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination.  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This
module is for Year 2 students who studied GERM1001 in their First Year. It is
not available to students who studied GERM1002.Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level 5)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1 and Term 2
Tutor:  VariousAssessment: Two take-home essays (one 1,000-word, 25%; one 1,500-word,
45%); and one twenty minute oral examination (30%). One essay will be on a
literary/cultural subject, the other on a political/historical subject. The
oral examination will be a report (Referat) on a topic set by the module tutor
and will be recorded, given in teams of four, and based on outline notes only.Module Description:This is an integrated language-culture module for second-year students. It is taught entirely in German and
designed as preparation for university-level study or work experience
during the Year Abroad. As such, it functions on two levels: 1. Content:
This module aims to provide students with the literary, cultural and
political history of the two capitals of Germany and Austria. The module will teach analytical skills in German using a number of texts,
from literary genres (poetry, drama, prose) to non-literary genres
(newspaper articles, political speeches, editorials). 2. Language acquisition:
All work for this module (reading, writing, speaking) must be done in
German. Specific language acquisition goals of the module are to:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0
course units / 15 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level
5)
  Total Learning Hours: 300
Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2
 
 Tutor: variousAssessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (65%); one 
oral examination (25%); and assessed coursework (10%). This is an intensive mandatory module for all students who are studyingItalian in any Modern Languages and Modern Languages Plus combination, as wellas for those following the single honours Italian BA.Module Description: The module assumes a satisfactory performance in the first 
year Italian language module. The aim of the module is to develop knowledge and 
use of Italian and a knowledge and understanding of Italian culture sufficient 
for students to cope successfully with the demands of their Year Abroad 
programme in Italy. In view of this, the module will also aim at developing 
increasing autonomy in student learning, including the ability to identify and 
plan individual strategies for the learning of Italian and the study of 
literary, historical and other subjects in Italian.Set Texts:A. Latino - M. Muscolino, Una grammatica italiana per tutti (Volume 2, B1-B2), Edilingua (Please note that Edilingua has just published a new edition of this book but the old version is equally fine) A. Filippone - S. Radicchi, Caccia ai tesori (B1-C1), LoescherA. De Giuli - C.M. Naddeo, Opera!, AlmaExtra material for the course will be uploaded on Moodle.Students must own 
a bilingual dictionary. We recommend Oxford Paravia Italian 
Dictionary English-Italian Italian-English, Milan, Paravia Bruno Mondadori 
Editori, 2001 (or a later edition).Books can be purchased from the Italian Bookshop with a 10% discount.  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level
5)
  Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Enrico PalandriAssessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (100%); and coursework.Module Description:This module focuses on two major Italian authors of the early 
nineteenth century. Manzoni’s promessi sposi and Leopardi’s Canti and Operette 
morali are studied in relation to the Italian debate on Romanticism and to 
European culture and society. Manzoni’s practice as a historical novelist is 
examined in the context of contemporary discussions of history and fiction. The 
links between Leopardi’s poetry and his thought are explored. Close attention is 
paid to individual texts.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:There are many good annotated editions of 
Manzoni’s I promessi sposi. Good English translations have been published by 
Dent (Everyman’s Library) and Penguin.  For Leopardi’s Canti the best commentaries are in the Meridiani (Milan,
Mondadori 1987) ed.  M.A. Rigoni. Leopardi’s
Zibaldone is now available in English., (Farrar, Strauss and Giroux,New York  2013)  On the two writers, see:  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(ITAL2112A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars
take place at the same times as ITAL2112.) Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level
5)
  Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1 Tutor: Professor Robert LumleyAssessment: ITAL2112: two 2500 word essays (50% each).ITAL2112A: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module description:The course examines
responses to modernity in Italy in the early 20th century, to phenomena such as
the rise of the city, electrification, new modes of transport, and cinema.
These developments represented a threat to values based on a traditional and
rural society, while they promised utopian possibilities of transformation. The
Futurist movement, under the leadership of Marinetti, welcomed the new in its
battle against an Italy of passatismo. It presented the world with a stream of
manifestos for change on every subject, from the visual arts to theatre,
literature, love and cooking. The course situates Futurism within a wider
cultural and historical context, paying special attention to the manifestoes
and other writings. It focuses on the visual arts and the remarkable role of
this avant-garde in inventing new forms across a range of media from painting
and sculpture to graphics and photography, and in exercising an international
influence. By looking at the careers of artists (Balla, Boccioni, Carrà,
Severini, Russolo) before, during and after their Futurist phase, the course
examines how and why they adopted different attitudes to the movement and to
the politics of nationalism and fascism espoused by Marinetti. Finally, it
reviews the international reception and exhibition of Futurist art in the 20th
and 21st centuries.
 
  Preparatory reading and set texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level
5)
  Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Carlotta Ferrara degli UbertiAssessment: 2 assessed essays of 2500 words each (50% each) Module Description:The starting point of the module will be an
introduction to the history of anti-Semitism: definition(s), evolution,
typologies. This first step will be followed by a presentation of the
historical context of the 1920s-1930s and of the characteristics of the Fascist
regime, with a particular focus on the cultural aspects. At this point it will
be possible to approach the topic of the origins and evolution of Fascist
racism and anti-Semitism and of the debates and documents leading to the Race
Laws of 1938. The application of these Laws and its practical and moral
consequences on Jewish life and identity will be analyzed following the most
recent research. Students will be given the opportunity to read primary
sources, and to reflect on the place of Fascism and Fascist anti-Semitism in
Italian history and the connection between historiography and memory. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				  Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level
5)
  Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Lisa SampsonAssessment: 2 assessed
essays of 2500 words each (50% each)Module description:Italy
was exceptional in 16thC Europe for the number and adventurousness
of the publications
produced by women. This module explores this phenomenon by looking at literary
practices and ideas on gender and women in Italy c.1380-1600 in a selection of
texts by Boccaccio, Vittoria Colonna, Veronica Franco and Moderata Fonte. These
writers will be studied in the context of significant social, historical and
intellectual shifts over the period, such as the rise of printing, the
Counter-Reformation, and challenges to Aristotelian thought on women. The
module will also consider topics related to the representation of women: sex vs
gender, the literary canon, the Renaissance debate on women (querelle des femmes), petrarchism,
religious culture, and neoplatonic ideas on beauty and love. The second part of
the module focuses particularly on 16thC Venice: it explores print
culture, literary networks, and courtesan and erotic culture. The
module builds on ITAL1118 Introduction to
Renaissance Italy, and will be taught using primary sources in Italian,
though post-beginners can refer to English translations.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:· Giovanni Boccaccio, Il Decamerone, any edition (selected novelle)· Giovanni Boccaccio, De Mulieribus Claris (Famous
Women), ed. and trans. Virginia Brown (Harvard University Press, 2001), (selected
biographies)· Vittoria Colonna, Rime, ed. by Alan Bullock (Rome, 1982)/[www.bibliotecaitaliana.it];
selected sonnets: ‘Rime amorose’, 1, 11, 63, 73, 76, 82; ‘Rime spirituali’, 1,
5, 78· Veronica Franco, Rime, in Poems and Selected
Letters translated by Ann R. Jones and Margaret F. Rosenthal (Chicago:
Chicago University press, 1998)]   · Veronica Franco, Lettere, ed. Stefano Bianchi (Rome: Salerno, 1998) [transl. in
Rosenthal ed.]  · Moderata Fonte, Il merito delle donne [1600], ed. by A. Chemello (Venice: Eidos,
1988) [transl. in Fonte, M., The Worth of
Women: Wherein Is Clearly Revealed Their Nobility and Their Superiority to Men,
ed. and transl. by Virginia Cox (Chicago: Chicago University Press, 1997)] Background reading· Hutson, Lorna, ed., Feminism and Renaissance Studies (Oxford, 1999)· Cox, Virginia, Women’s Writing in Italy 1400-1650 (Baltimore, 2008) · Cox, Virginia, The Prodigious Muse: Women’s Writing in Counter-Reformation Italy
(Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press, 2011)· Wiesner, Merry E., Women and Gender in Early
Modern Europe (Cambridge, 1993)· Panizza, Letizia and Wood, Sharon, eds, A
History of Women’s Writing in Italy (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press,
2000)· Benson, Pamela J., The Invention of the
Renaissance Woman: the Challenge of Female Independence in the Literature and
Thought of Italy and England (University Park, PA, 1992)Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level
5)
  Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 2 Convenor: Dr Eleanor ChiariAssessment: two 2000
word essays (50% each)Module description:This module builds
upon the LCUL1001 Language, Culture and Representation core course from year one (though students
are not required to have taken it to take it). The aim of this module is to get students to
practice applying cultural theory to a wide range of texts and
materials. Students will read a selection of original writings from famous
cultural theorists  as well as examples of academic applications of
these theories.  They will then be asked to do their own analysis of original
fiction/film/art in light of the theorists they have studied. Each week
they will be asked to either present on this material or to write short
non-assessed pieces of writing grappling with these theories. In addition to
discussing theory together in class  we will spend part of
every lesson assessing student writing and ideas together to polish and
perfect academic writing and critical thinking around complex academic and
visual texts.Preliminary reading list:Specific theorists will be chosen (still to be
confirmed). Students will be asked to read a selection of key texts by the
cultural theorist as well as works by scholars who make 'use' of the theorists.
They will then be given a specific work of fiction/film/photography/art and
will be asked to reflect on the ways such a piece can be interpreted in light
of the theories discussed in class. First Example:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
30
UCL credits / 1.0 course units / 15 ECTS  Level: Intermediate level (level 5)
 Total Learning Hours: 300
 Term/s: Full YearTutor: Dr Joana Rita RamalhoTeaching structure: The class meets 4 hours per week in two 2-hour
classes. The teaching is divided into four main components: Oral, Grammar, Translation
into Portuguese and Translation into English. Other
skills, such as listening and reading comprehension and writing skills, are
included in each of the four components.Assessment: Final Desk Exam with components of Grammar, Translation into Portuguese and Translation
into English (50%); Oral Exam (20%); Coursework (30%). The
coursework consists of two grammar quizzes, two oral presentations,
two writing exercises, two translations into Portuguese and two translations
into English. The breakdown for coursework marks is 3% for each
componentModule Description:Taken over two terms,
this is an intermediate course that builds on and consolidates previous
knowledge of the Portuguese language. Students must have been enrolled in the
Beginners’ course (PORT1010) offered by the department or must have otherwise
undertaken an equivalent course in a different institution or possess basic
speaking, writing, and listening skills through self-study. This module
consolidates your linguistic ability at Level B1 of the Common European
Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR), with some aspects of Level B2
also explored. By the end of the second term, students are expected to master
complex structures of written and spoken Portuguese. You should be able to
communicate fluently in a variety of contexts and deal with most situations
likely to arise when travelling in a Lusophone country. Students will be
developing skills in reading and translating short literary and non-fiction
texts in a variety of registers, including poems, short stories, novels,
newspaper articles and commentaries. Students explore the conventions of
European and Brazilian Portuguese, and can continue to develop their preference
for one or the other variety. Connections are encouraged to the materials
studied on Year 2 PORT content modules. Cultural aspects of the wider Lusophone world
will be introduced, preparing students for the Year Abroad. To learn more about
the Year Abroad, which students can spend in Brazil, Portugal, or (with work
placements) any other Lusophone country, follow this
link. We will encourage you to work over the summer to ensure that you make the
best of your stay abroad.Course materials: Your tutor will make use of a combination of online
resources, grammars, textbooks and other materials. You are asked to bring the
following book (the same as for PORT1010) to class: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(PORT2201A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The module takes place at the same time as PORT2201.)Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Intermediate Level (level 5)
 Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Zoltán BiedermannAssessment: PORT2201: one 3000 word essay (40%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (60%).
PORT2201A:1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). 
Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS. Module Description: This module
will introduce you to the critical study of Portuguese travel narratives,
geographical and ethnographic texts produced between c.1450 and 1650. We will
read a selection of translated primary texts narrating travels, encounters and
confrontations with extra-European cultures, accompanied by a selection of
secondary literature highlighting the quandaries of the genre’s intertwinements
with imperial expansion and the making of colonial societies in Brazil, Africa
and Asia. To highlight the unique characteristics of Portuguese travel writing,
the course covers the entire globe, but some emphasis will be placed on early
colonial Brazil and the East Indies. The secondary readings will help us to
reflect on questions of literary invention, appropriation and stereotyping in
the representation of other cultures. At the same time, we shall also examine
how travel accounts can function as historical sources and promote a better
understanding of the world that produced them.Please note that this Term 2
module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Primary texts in English translation: Further titles tba. Excerpts from all materials will be available
through Moodle. Please contact the tutor if you wish to read materials in
advance.Core secondary bibliography: Companions to the study of travel writing in general: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Intermediate Level (level 5)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Ana Cláudia Suriani da SilvaAssessment: 1,500 word coursework essay (30%), 15 minute oral presentation in pairs (30%), 2 hour desk examination (40%). Module Description: This module introduces students to 20th-century Brazilian literature and the cinema of Brazil through four novels and their adaptations into film. They reflect key themes of Brazilian literature and cinema: the city, the malandro, the backlands of the Northeast, urban violence, immigration, drought, popular culture and religion, going from Neo Realism and Cinema Novo to today. In addition to providing students with clearer understanding of the history, culture, and socio-economic realities of 20th century Brazil, this module seeks to explore how novels are adapted and interpreted for the screen and to address the question of how can studying film adaptation allows us to better understand what it is that literature does, and vice versa.Method of delivery:Lectures and seminars convened and
facilitated by the individual course tutor. There will be film screenings of
the adaptations and documentaries.Aims of the module:Intended learning outcomes:Upon successful completion of the
course, students are expected:You may start reading the primary texts for this course
before classes begin.Key Texts and films films:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 300Term: Full Year Convenor: Dr Anne GrydehøjTeaching structure: The module will consist of exercises and various
tasks including text-reading and discussion. The various activities will
continually be evaluated and adapted to best suit students’ needs.
 Assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (50%); one oral
examination (30%); and module assessment (20%). Module Description:  The module aims to: build on
and improve students’ strategies and methods for language learning; build on
and improve students’ language skills in speaking, understanding, writing and
reading including basic elements of pronunciation, vocabulary and grammar; enable
the students to express opinions and discuss various topics with some fluency
in both speech and writing, and to understand and read authentic Danish texts
at increasing levels of difficulty. Preparatory Reading and Set
Texts: Texts: The textbook Ordet
er frit (Birte Langgaard; Gyldendal: 2004) will be used, along with various
texts, video and audio materials, and exercises made available on the module
Moodle site. Grammar: It is recommended
that students have their own copy of R. Allan, P. Holmes & T.
Lundskær-Nielsen, Danish. An Essential Grammar (Routledge, 2011). Dictionaries: Dansk-engelsk
ordbog & Engelsk-dansk ordbog (Gyldendal) or similar. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 300Term: Full YearTutor: Ms Annika Lindskog Assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (50%); one oral
examination (30%); and one module assessment (20%).Module Description: The module aims to build on and
improve the students’ existing knowledge of Swedish so as to enable them to
read Swedish texts, understand everyday conversations, and express themselves
fluently in both speech and writing. Through the use of a variety of
techniques (such as study of various types of text, grammar exercises,
translation, conversation on everyday topics, etc.), the students will
gradually improve their spoken and written language.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Texts To be announced at the beginning
of the Autumn Term.    Grammar Dictionaries Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 300Term: Full YearTutor: Dr Elettra CarboneAssessment: one unseen written examination (50%); one oral examination (30%); and one module assessment (20%).Module Description: The module aims to build up and improve the students’ existing knowledge of Norwegian (bokmål), to enable them to read Norwegian (bokmål)
texts, understand everyday conversations, and express themselves well
enough in speech and writing to cope with life at a Norwegian
university in their third year. Besides using the chosen textbooks and workbooks (Mer norsk and Klart det!), once a week students will work a variety of original texts (newspaper articles, short essays, websites, blogs, short documentaries, and film clips) to strengthen their written and oral comprehension skills. Texts will form the basis of class discussion. Written tasks will be assigned as homework from week to week to consolidate the vocabulary encountered in class. Student
participation is essential and there will be conversation and
discussion of general topics, plus translation and listening
comprehension.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: Textbook  GrammarDictionaries All students must own a good
Norwegian-English and English-Norwegian dictionary. One of the
dictionaries must indicate the gender of Norwegian nouns. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 300Term: Full yearTutor: Dr Helga Hlaðgerður LúthersdóttirTeaching structure: The module is taught by
classroom instruction using texts which illustrate everyday life in Iceland,
past and present, and literary texts. As well as taking active part in lessons
the student will be expected to work on short compositions and essays, read
excerpts from several modern Icelandic literary texts, and participate in class
discussions in Icelandic.Assessment: one unseen written examination (50%); one oral examination (30%); and 
one assessed coursework in the form of language portfolio (20%).Module Description: This module aims to
develop the student’s ability to speak and understand, read and write Icelandic
up to an advanced level and to deepen their understanding of the grammar of the
language. Particular attention will be given to impersonal and passive
constructions and to the use of the subjunctive.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Recommended dictionaries Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1Convenor: Dr Elettra CarboneAssessment: One assessed essay (4,000 words; 100%).Module Description: This module aims to introduce students to some of the major
Nordic literary texts (prose, drama, lyric) from 1800 to the present day. The
aim is to develop students’ familiarity with a range of theoretical approaches
to literature by way of considering the works under the four themes of Crime,
Gender, City and Nature. Students will have the opportunity to read texts
written in their chosen Scandinavian language as well as to familiarise
themselves with texts in other Scandinavian languages (for those with no
previous knowledge of a mainland Scandinavian language, all texts will be available
in English translation). Students registered for the BA in Scandinavian Studies
MUST familiarise themselves with the set texts written in their chosen language
in the original language.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:The following texts or similar will be studied in the module: Henrik Ibsen, A Doll's House; August Strindberg, Miss Julie and Other Plays; Knut Hamsun, Hunger; Halldór Laxness, The Atom
Station; Jørgen-Frantz Jacobsen, Barbara; a  selection of nature poems from the nineteenth century; Dan Turèll, Murder in the Dark; extracts from Benny Andersen, The Contract Killer; Erlend Loe, Naïve. Super; extracts from Jan Kjærstad, The Seducer; Jonas Hassen Khemiri, Invasion!Suggested
background reading: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Full YearTutor: Dr Erin GoeresTeaching structure: Classes will take the form of seminar-style discussions
in which the translation of key passages will be set within the wider context
of Old Norse literary criticism and current scholarly debate.Assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (70%); and one 2,500 word essay (30%).Module Description:This module will build on ‘An Introduction to Old Norse’ and will continue
to familiarise students with the language and literature of Viking and medieval
Scandinavia. The first term will focus
on the development and characteristics of the Icelandic saga, while the second
term will explore the mythological treatise Snorra
Edda and the use of Old Norse mythology in eddic and skaldic poetry.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Nearly all
translation passages will be taken from A
New Introduction to Old Norse – Part II: Reader, ed. Anthony Faulkes
(London, 2008). Students are also advised to review topics covered previously
in A New Introduction to Old Norse – Part
1: Grammar, ed. Michael Barnes (London, 2004) before the start of term.
Both volumes, as well as the accompanying glossary, are available online. 
 Set texts
from the Reader will include Njáls saga and Íslendinga saga in the first term, and Skáldskaparmál and Þrymskviða in the second 
term. Additional material will be provided in class.It is strongly recommended that
students read the entirety of Njáls saga in
translation (available in Penguin Classics, The
Complete Sagas of Icelanders or similar) before the start of term. Useful secondary sources include: Useful reference works:Please note that this module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1Tutor:  Dr Helga Hlaogerou LuthersdottirAssessment: one assessed 4000 word essay (100%).Module Description:Norse myths and medieval sagas have been the
source for “popular” cultural trends since the first nationalistic approach of
the Romantics in 19th century Europe. Today, such Norse-based representations
have established a distinct visual and thematic identity within popular culture
transcending national and cultural boundaries. Through study of the source
myths combined with theoretical analysis of various popular texts such as
fantasy and graphic novels, comic books, film, music, video games and MMORPGs
(massively multiplayer online role-playing games), this module will guide students
to situate these depictions within a larger theoretical framework of Nordic
studies and cultural theory, while simultaneously
enabling them to analyse their own relationship with the various
representations of the “popular Norse”.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Primary TextsFilmsSecondary TextsAdditional texts will be introduced as the module progresses. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSPG Value: 30 UCL credits UG Level: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 2
Convenor: Dr Mart KuldkeppTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. UG Assessment: One unseen two-hour written examination (60%); and one 2,500
word essay (40%)PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%)Module
Description:The Nordic
countries have often been regarded as ‘model’ societies, famous for their high
levels of economic prosperity, social equality and political stability. We will
discuss the historical roots of this distinctive ‘Nordic’ experience and how it
has changed since the end of the Cold War, as the Nordic countries have needed
to adopt to new regional, Europe-wide and global developments. This historical
introduction will be followed by a thematic examination of contemporary Nordic
societies in a comparative perspective, looking at the varied legacies of the
‘Nordic model’. Topics to be covered include Nordic foreign and security
policy, domestic politics and the rise of the populist right, immigration and
integration, crime and justice, gender equality, environmentalism and Nordic
co-operation. It should be noted that a focus on the Nordic countries will also
provide a new perspective on some of the most important developments affecting
the whole of Europe over the last 25 years. Preparatory reading and
set texts: There
are no set texts.  A full reading list will be provided at the start of
the course.Mary
Hilson, The Nordic Model:
Scandinavia since 1945 (London: Reaktion, 2008).David Arter,
Scandinavian Politics Today (Manchester:
Manchester University Press. Third edition).Eric S
Einhorn and John Logue, Modern
Welfare States: Scandinavian Politics and Policy in the Global Era (Westport,
Connecticut, 2003).Knud V
Jespersen, A History of
Denmark, translated Ivan Hill (Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan, 2004). David
Kirby, A Concise History of
Finland (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2006).Jason Lavery,
The History of Finland
(Westport, Conn.: Greenwood Press, 2006).Osmo
Jussila, Seppo Hentilä and Jukka Nevakiri, From
Grand Duchy to Nation State: A political history of Finland since 1809, translated
David and Eva-Kaisa Arter (London:
Hurst & Co, 1999).Gunnar
Karlsson, Iceland's 1100
years : the history of a marginal society (London: Hurst, 1999).Rolf
Danielsen et al., Norway: A History from the Vikings to Our Own Times, translated by Michael Drake (Oslo: Scandinavian
University Press , 1995).Byron J
Nordstrom, The History of
Sweden (Westport, Conn.: Greenwood Press, 2002).Neil Kent,
A Concise History of Sweden (Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 2008).
 
 Notes: This Term 2 module is assessed by both essay and
examination. In order to allow students full coverage of the module, the
deadline for submission of the essay is the beginning of Term 3. In practice,
this will leave no or, at best, limited time to receive feedback on the essay
before the examination.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 300Term: Full YearTutor: Dr Haki AntonssonTeaching structure: The module will be taught through a combination of lectures and seminars.This module is also available as two one-term options, respectively:SCAN7405A - 0.5cu (Term 1)
SCAN7405B - 0.5cu (Term 2)Assessment: SCAN 7405 is assessed by one unseen three-hour written examination (50%); and two 2,500 word essays (25% each).Parts A and B are each assessed by 2 essays each of 2500 words (50% each)Module Description:The module will examine society and culture in Scandinavia in the period ca. 800-1100. Geographically the module will encompass Sweden, Denmark Norway, and the Norse colonies in the North Atlantic (the Faroes, Iceland, and Greenland). In the case of Iceland the time-span will extend to the end of the Commonwealth period (ca. 1262). The principal themes that the module will cover include: the causes of the Viking Age; the development and emergence of the three Scandinavian kingdoms; the nature of the pre-Christian religion; the conversion to Christianity; the development of Church organisation; relation with Europe, in particular the Insular world and the beginning of written culture. Particular emphasis will be placed on presenting and analysing the various source-categories relevant to Viking-Age Scandinavia. These include, for example, runic inscriptions, place-names, archaeological evidence and saga literature.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Claire ThomsonAssessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay (30%); and one assessed 4,000 word project (70%)Module Description:This module has two main objectives: (a) to enable students to develop the skills to analyse films as
texts in their cultural and historical contexts, and (b) to provide an overview
of the development and range of Nordic film as art and industry, within the
broader context of European film history. The module is structured into three blocks, respectively covering early and silent cinema in Denmark, Norway and Sweden; three Nordic auteurs, Dreyer, Bergman and Kaurismäki; and the notion of contemporary 'small-nation cinema', covering Icelandic film, Dogme 95, intercultural cinema and transnational co-production.The module consists of a weekly two-hour (approx) film screening with introduction, followed the next day by a two-hour seminar.  Students are expected to undertake
preparatory reading for lectures and seminars, to attend all
screenings and seminars, and
to watch additional films as necessary. A detailed course outline and week-by-week reading is available on the
module moodle site (UCL user id and login required).The first essay tests students' grasp of film analysis and their ability to apply it to particular films. The second piece of assessment is a project which is independently designed and researched by the student on a topic of his/her choice, under the guidance of the module tutor. Former students of the module have been able to publish outstanding project work under the auspices of the Norvik Press student writings series - see Framed Horizons below.No knowledge of a Scandinavian language is required as all films are subtitled (though a reading ability in a Scandinavian language does give access to a broader range of primary and secondary materials). Students from outside Scandinavian Studies are welcome to enrol, subject to available space.Key texts:  A week-by-week reading list is provided at the start of the module. Students are not expected to buy or read all of the texts below in advance; this list is indicative only.Weekly film screenings:Afgrunden (The Abyss, dir. Urban Gad, Denmark, 1910)Körkarlen (The Phantom Carriage, dir. Victor Sjöström, Sweden, 1920)Den hemmelighetsfulle leiligheten (The Mysterious Apartment, dir. Tancred Ibsen, Norway, 1948)Det sjunde inseglet (The Seventh Seal, dir. Ingmar Bergman, Sweden, 1957)Gertrud (Gertrud, dir. Carl Th. Dreyer, Denmark, 1966)Mies vailla menneisyyttä (The Man without a Past, dir. Aki Kaurismäki, Finland, 2002)Börn náttúrunnar (Children of Nature, dir. Friðrik Þór Friðriksson, Iceland, 1991)
Festen (The Celebration, dir. Thomas Vinterberg, Denmark, 1998)Zozo (dir. Josef Fares, Sweden, 2005)Miss Julie (dir. Liv Ullmann, Norway/Sweden/Ireland, 2014)Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Intermediate Level (level 5)  Total Learning Hours: 150  Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Maria Chiara D'ArgenioTeaching structure: This course
is taught by lectures and seminars which will include regular group discussion.Assessment: one 3000 word essay (40%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (60%). Module Description:This module is based on a
substantial survey of artistic forms which epitomize the difficulties and
limits of representing the Subaltern in Latin America. The figures of the
subaltern chosen include the woman in patriarchal society, the slave in
colonial society, the dispossessed peasantry in rural areas and the worker in a
capitalist society. These are characters whose voices and stories have been (at
least) partially hidden and their narratives culturally muted, albeit
persistent. As exemplified by Sor Juana´s question in the epigraph, the
artistic contributions we will study during this course set out to explore the
tensions existing between the possibility of speaking or subsuming to ‘the art
of saying without saying’.Subaltern studies is about the
representation of the third-world subject, representation in the political
sense of ‘speaking for’ a subject and in the artistic and philosophical sense
of ‘speaking of’ a subject. By examining the subaltern, this course seeks to
address issues such as the relationship between representation and power: which
representations are able to secure cultural domination and which do not.
Following an exploration of different definitions and concepts such as
hegemony, representation, discourse, ideology, positions of power, culture,
silence and subordination, and taking into account key aesthetic proposals
developed in the Latin American context, this course will consider literary,
pictorial, cinematic and historical works which speak to experiences of
subalternity in Latin America.Students should read all the texts listed below and the supplementary readings indicated by the course tutor before the allocated class. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
30
UCL credits / 1.0 course units / 15 ECTS  Level: First Level (level 4)
 Total Learning Hours: 300
 Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2Tutor: variousModule convenors: Adolfo Sánchez Cuadrado & Marga Navarrete Teaching
structure:Assessment 2017-18:
Final Desk Exam with components of
Grammar, Composition in Spanish, Translation into Spanish and Translation into
English (50%); Oral Exam (20%);
Coursework (30%). The coursework consists of two grammar
quizzes, two oral presentations, two writing exercises in Spanish, two
translations into Spanish, and two translations into English. The breakdown
for coursework marks is 3% for each component.Assessment 2016-17: Module
Description:This is a second-year Spanish
language module consolidating your proficiency at level B2 and exploring level
C1 of the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR). In the
Grammar and Communicative Skills classes you will expand your vocabulary and learn to use
increasingly more sophisticated language in a variety of contexts and registers,
as well as idioms, expressions and colloquialisms.
Different varieties of Spanish will be explored. The Translation classes will
help you enhance your translation competences already acquired in the previous
year in order to tackle a wider variety of texts in both language directions. You
will improve your knowledge of the Hispanic culture(s) across the globe,
especially in the Additional Contents and Skills classes, which will prepare
you for the Year Abroad. To learn more about the Year Abroad, which students
spend in one out of a wide range of Spanish-speaking countries, follow this linkSet
Textbooks (compulsory)*:  VV. AA. (2017), C
de C1. Barcelona: Difusión. 192 pages. ISBN: 9788416273485 VV. AA.
(2012), Developing Writing Skills in Spanish. London and New
York: Routledge. 372 pages. Hardback ISBN: 9780415590822. Paperback ISBN:
9780415590839. [Digital copy available from UCL library]. *Students are required to get a copy of each book and are expected to bring them to their respective classes. Reference Grammar
(recommended):VV. AA. (2011,
2013), A New Reference Grammar of Modern Spanish. 5th Edition.
Oxon y Nueva York: Routledge. 608 pages. ISBN: 9781444137699. [Digital copy
available for temporary download from UCL library, and permanent on-line
viewing from UCL library].VV.AA. (2011), Practising
Spanish Grammar. 3rd Edition. London: Routledge. 248
pages. ISBN: 978-1444137705 [Digital copy available from UCL library].Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150  Term/s: Term 2 Tutor: Dr
Gareth WoodTeaching structure: La
Regenta is a substantial novel, 900 pages in length in most 
editions. This module will therefore spend the first half of the term 
reading the novel in
stages and looking in detail at how the action develops. In the second 
half of
term, we will move on to discuss the novel in its social and cultural 
context,
engaging in close reading and examining the critical discourses that 
have grown
up around the novel. Background lectures will provide the necessary 
contextual
detail and seminars will allow for class discussion and the sharing of 
ideas.Assessment: One
3000-word coursework essay (40%) and a two-hour desk exam (60%).Module Description: In
this module we shall be reading and analysing the novel La Regenta
(1884-85) by Leopoldo Alas. Writing under the penname ‘Clarín’, Alas was the
most famous literary critic in Spain at the time he published La Regenta.
He had gained a reputation as a scathing cultural commentator but La Regenta
surprised many of his contemporaries for the sensitivity with which it depicted
a troubled young woman’s search for happiness and a stable identity in a
provincial Spanish city. Her name is Ana Ozores, a woman who endures a troubled
childhood as the poor relation of an aristocratic family which has fallen on
hard times. Still a young adult, she finds herself married to Don Víctor Quintanar,
an aged and impotent former judge, but increasingly torn between sexual desire
for Don Álvaro Mesía, the local lothario, and a yearning to explore her
spiritual life guided by her confessor, Fermín de Pas. It is her struggle with
the competing claims of duty, lust, and spirituality that forms the central
thread of the novel. Because
he was reading and reviewing much of the new fiction published in Spain and
abroad, Alas was well placed to respond to the latest developments in the
European novel. La Regenta can therefore be considered as a novel written
in response to the Naturalist techniques Émile Zola was pursuing at this time.
However, it is regarded today as both one of the best psychological portraits
of a female protagonist in nineteenth-century fiction and one of the most
biting social satires.Please note that this Term 2
module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination. 

Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: The
edition of La Regenta we shall be using is in two volumes: Leopoldo Alas, La Regenta, ed. by Gonzalo Sobejano, 2
vols (Madrid: Castalia, 1983 [or subsequent reprints]). It would be helpful if you could get hold of a
copy of this edition for use in class.
A detailed bibliography of secondary sources will be provided 
via moodle and in class.
    Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(SPAN2109A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The module takes place at the same time as SPAN2109.)Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Intermediate Level (level 5)  Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term/s: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Maria Chiara D'ArgenioAssessment: SPAN2109: one essay (40%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (60%). In the exam,
students must answer questions on texts not studied for the coursework essay.
SPAN2109A:1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module Description: This module will introduce you to a range of work by
a number of women writers from the Southern Cone and the Andean region. The
module will begin with a consideration of the principal issues at stake in
approaching the topic of women’s writing (e.g. can writing be gendered? Is
there such as thing as a women’s language?), in the course of which you will be
equipped with the relevant vocabulary and conceptual framework necessary for
this enterprise. During the rest of the module you will study a range of works
in different genres including novel, short story, essay and poetry. Issues to
be considered throughout the module in relation to the texts studied will
include: questions of language, style and form; thematic concerns such as
identity, family, nationhood, modernity and ‘race’; and the writers’ and works’
relationship to broader historical contexts of literary production.Preparatory reading and set texts:General background readingPlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Intermediate Level (level 5)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term/s: Term 2Tutor: Dr Claire Lindsay.Assessment: one essay (40%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (60%).Module Description: This course will introduce you to a range of work by a number of
women writers from Mexico and the Hispanic Caribbean region.
The course will begin with a consideration of the principal issues at
stake in approaching the topic of women’s writing (e.g. can writing be
gendered? Is there such as thing as a women’s language?), in the course
of which you will be equipped with the relevant vocabulary and
conceptual framework necessary for this endeavour. During the rest of
the course you will study a range of work in different genres, typically including the novel, essay and short story. Issues
to be considered throughout the course in relation to the texts studied
will include: questions of language, style and form; thematic and social concerns
such as identity, family, nationhood and ‘race’; and the writers’ and
works’ relationship to the literary canon and to broader historical
contexts of literary production.Please note that this Term 2
module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination. Preparatory reading and set texts: books you will need to buy/or have your own copy of include the following. The above are recommended editions but others may be available and acceptable - please check with the course convenor.  Background readingPlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Intermediate Level (level 5)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term/s: Term 2Tutor: Dr Deborah MartinAssessment: one essay (50%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (50%).Module Description:This module will introduce students to a broad range of periods and
styles in Latin American cinema, and to concepts in film theory. It will
explore thematic questions of nationhood, politics, gender and sexuality, as
well as questions specific to cinematic and visual representation.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: Films Initial Secondary
BibliographyPlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Intermediate Level (level 5)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Tyler Fisher Assessment: 3000 word coursework essay (40%), unseen two-hour written examination (60%). Module Description: This module introduces
students to a range of literature written by and about the Spanish Inquisition
in Spain and the Spanish colonies. The module considers ‘literature’ in the
broadest sense, in an historicist approach (ranging from the Inquisitors’
regulatory memoranda to conventional stage plays). Beginning with the founding
documents that set the Inquisition in motion, and ending with the polemical
pamphlets that argued for and against its abolition, we read these texts in
their social and historical contexts, as literature that shaped and was shaped
by the institution. While not exonerating or in any way excusing the
Inquisition’s abuses, the module challenges facile, reductive assumptions about
its nature and effects. Proceeding chronologically, we reconsider the
Inquisition as a continuously evolving socio-political phenomenon, within
which, and in spite of which, artful textual production took place across
nearly 350 years of Spanish history.The
course tutor convenes and facilitates lectures and seminars. All course
information will be made available via Moodle, as well as many of the primary
texts for lectures and seminars. You may start reading for this module before
classes begin. Key readings are marked with an asterisk in the list of texts.Preparatory
Reading and Set Texts: Helen Rawlings, The Spanish Inquisition (2006). Instrucciones, the inquisitors’ own procedural rules
and regulations. Fray
Luis de León, selected Odes. Lazarillo de Tormes, the expurgated chapters.  *Juan
Ruiz de Alarcón, Quien mal anda en mal
acaba. selected
Elogios by Sephardic Jews (1655). *Luis
Gutiérrez, Cornelia Bororquia, o La
víctima de la Inquisición, ed. Gérard Dufour.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(SPAN2400A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The module takes place at the same time as SPAN2400.)Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Intermediate Level (level 5)  Total Learning Hours: 150  Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Adrian PearceAssessment: SPAN2400: Two 2,000-word essays (each weighted at 50%).
SPAN2400A:1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module Description:This module covers the history of Latin America during three of the five
centuries that have elapsed since the Iberian conquests, a period that shaped
the region in fundamental ways and endowed it with enduring characteristics. It
thus addresses questions such as: why do Mexico or Peru have large indigenous populations
today, while Cuba or Argentina do not? Why do so many people of African descent
live in Cuba or Brazil, but so few in Guatemala or Uruguay? Or why are there
eighteen Spanish-spealing republics, but just one (vast) Portuguese-speaking
one? The course covers political, social, economic, and cultural aspects, and
devotes attention to both the Spanish and Portuguese colonies, while also
following closely the history of Spain and Portugal themselves during this
period.Early sessions discuss the Spanish conquest, for which historical debate
is almost as hard-fought as were the wars for Mexico and Peru between
conquistadors, Aztecs, and Incas; the collapse over the following century of
native populations throughout the Americas, and its lasting implications; the
so-called spiritual conquest and the distinctive religious tradition to which
it gave rise, based on the melding of traditions or religious syncretism;
gender relations and attitudes to sexuality, with a focus on women; and forced
labour systems, with emphasis on African slavery as it developed in the New
World context.After reading week, we begin with a session on the colonial economy,
based above all on silver mining at places such as Potosí in Bolivia or
Zacatecas in Mexico, and the fleets of galleons that united Iberia with the
colonies across the Atlantic. We then devote two classes to relations between
Spain and Portugal and the Americas: the first to the place of the colonies
within the Iberian global empires, and to shifting relations between colonies
and metropolises; and the second to the imperial policies and strategies
developed in Madrid and Lisbon in response. The final two sessions look at
native resistance to colonial rule during the eighteenth century, above all in
the Andes, and finally the complex processes that led to Independence after
1800.Indicative
Bibliography (a full bibliography will be distributed at
the start of the course)General historiesAndrien, Kenneth (ed.), The Human
Tradition in Colonial Latin America 2nd ed. (Lanham, MD., 2013).Burkholder, Mark, and Lyman Johnson, Colonial
Latin America 8th ed. (Oxford, 2012).Restall, Matthew, and Kris Lane, Latin
America in Colonial Times (Cambridge, 2011).Primary source collections in EnglishBoyer, Richard, and Geoffrey Spurling (eds.), Colonial Lives: Documents on Latin American History, 1550-1850
(Oxford, 1999).Mills, Kenneth, and William Taylor (eds.), Colonial Latin America: A Documentary History (Lanham, MD., 2002).Schwartz, Stuart, Early Brazil: A
Documentary Collection to 1700 (Cambridge, 2009).Selected key studiesAndrien, Kenneth, Andean Worlds:
Indigenous History, Culture, and Consciousness under Spanish Rule, 1532-1825
(Albuquerque, NM., 2001).Cook, Noble David, Demographic
Collapse: Indian Peru, 1520-1620 (Cambridge, 2004).Crosby, Alfred, The Columbian
Exchange: Biological and Cultural Consequences of 1492 (Westport, CONN.,
2003).Elliott, John, Spain, Europe, and
the Wider World, 1500-1800 (New Haven, CONN., 2009).Klein, Herbert, and Ben Vinson III, African
Slavery in Latin America and the Caribbean 2nd ed. (Oxford,
2007).Maxwell, Kenneth, Conflicts and
Conspiracies: Brazil and Portugal, 1750-1808 (New York, 2004).McFarlane, Anthony, War and
Independence in Spanish America (New York, 2014).Paquette, Gabriel, Enlightenment,
Governance, and Reform in Spain and its Empire, 1759-1808 (New York, 2008).Restall, Matthew, Seven Myths of
the Spanish Conquest (Oxford, 2004).Russell-Wood, A. J. R., Society and
Government in Colonial Brazil, 1500-1822 (London, 1992).Gonzalbo Aizpuru, Pilar, Los muros
invisibles: Las mujeres novohispanas y la imposible igualdad (Mexico City,
2016).Stein, Stanley, and Barbara Stein, Silver,
Trade, and War: Spain and America in the Making of Early Modern Europe
(Baltimore, 2000).Walker, Charles, The Tupac Amaru
Rebellion (Harvard, MASS., 2014).Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Intermediate Level (level 5)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Adrian PearceAssessment: Two 2,000-word essaysModule Description:This module concerns the extraordinary history of Spain in the twentieth
century. Over the past hundred years, the country has fought a brutal civil war,
and experienced among the most stable and enduring of European dictatorships;
toyed with republicanism, before re-establishing itself as a monarchy; and undergone
a democratic transition regarded as a model around the world, to then
experience several decades of the “Spanish miracle”, of rapid economic growth
and growing soft power. Most recently, the country has seen the political and
economic model established during the transition come under strain, through
unresolved tensions over fundamental questions of governance and national
identity. All of this, while undergoing social change of unprecedented rapidity,
that has given the country much of its distinctive feel in recent times.We begin by providing the necessary context, with a session devoted to
Spain´s turbulent nineteenth century. Successive classes then look at the
period to the 1930s, marked by colonial wars in Africa and the strange dictatorship
of Miguel Primo de Rivera; the Second Republic from 1931 to 1936, as a period
of growing social and political tension and violence; and the catastrophe of
the Civil War itself, which became an archetype of the horrors of internal
strife and a mirror of broader European trends during W. H. Auden´s “low,
dishonest decade”. The final class before reading week focuses upon the
dictatorship of Francisco Franco that followed, and its political, social, and
economic consequences across several decades until Franco´s death in 1975.Later sessions begin with a discussion of Spain´s remarkable transition
to democracy in the late 1970s and early 1980s, long considered perhaps the
most successful process of its kind. We then discuss the period from the 1980s
to the 2000s, of integration with Europe, economic boom, and cultural
florescence, that seemed to crown a remarkable period of national reinvention
and success. A further class discusses the specific case of Catalonia, as a window
on to regional nationalisms in contemporary Spain and a key test for the current
democratic settlement. Finally, the last two classes look, first, at social
change in Spain since the 1970s, from the movida
madrileña to mass immigration, and secondly, at Spanish international
relations across the period since the Second World War.Indicative
Bibliography (a full bibliography will be distributed at
the start of the course)General historiesFusi, Juan Pablo, Historia Mínima de España (Madrid, 2012).Phillips, William, and Carla Rahn Phillips, A Concise History of Spain (Cambridge, 2010).Ross, Chris, Spain since 1812:
Modern History for Modern Languages 3rd ed. (London, 2009).Primary source collections in EnglishAyrton, Peter (ed.), ¡No Pasarán! Writings from the Spanish Civil War (London, 2016).Cowans,
Jon (ed.), Modern Spain: A Documentary
History (Philadelphia, 2003).Selected key studiesAlvarez Tardío, Manuel, and Fernando del Rey
Reguillo (eds.), The Spanish Second
Republic Revisited: From Democratic Hopes to Civil War (1931-1936) (Brighton, 2013).Balfour, Sebastion, and Paul Preston (eds.), Spain and the Great Powers in the Twentieth Century (London, 1999).Crameri, Kathryn, Goodbye, Spain? The
Question of Independence for Catalonia (Brighton, 2014).Gillespie, Richard, and Caroline Gray (eds.), Contesting Spain? The Dynamics of Nationalist Movements in Catalonia
and the Basque Country (Abingdon, 2015).González Rodríguez, Juan Jesús, and Miguel Requena (eds.), Tres décadas de cambio social en España
(Madrid, 2012).Hooper, John, The New Spaniards
2nd ed. (Harmondsworth, 2006).Ortega Ruiz, Manuel, Felipe
González: La ambición que cambió España (Madrid, 2015).Preston, Paul, Franco: A Biography
(London, 1993).Preston, Paul, The Spanish Civil
War: Reaction, Revolution, and Revenge (London, 2006).Romero Salvado, Francisco, Twentieth
Century Spain: Politics and Society in Spain, 1898-1998 (New York, 1999).Townson, Nigel, Spain Transformed:
The Late Franco Dictatorship, 1959-75 (New York, 2010).Tremlett, Giles, Ghosts of Spain:
Travels through a Country´s Hidden Past (London, 2012).Tussell, Javier, Spain: From
Dictatorship to Democracy (Oxford, 2012).Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Intermediate Level (level 5)
 Total Learning Hours: 150  Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Alexander SamsonTeaching structure: Assessment: one 3000 word essay (40%); one unseen two-hour written examination (40%); one group project (20%).Module Description:The module will trace the development of commercial theatre in early 
modern Spain from its medieval origins in church performances and Corpus
 Christi celebrations, to its heyday in the 17th century. The theatre 
was the first truly popular cultural form of the modern world and 
attracted its audiences from all levels of society. Our discussions will
 focus around a number of themes including: power, anti-theatricalism, 
representations of kingship, honour, gender and cross-dressing, race, 
the New World, sexuality, the Don Juan myth and sumptuary law.Please note that this Term 2
module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:The editions listed here are merely recommendations. 
Cátedra or Castalia editions of any of the plays are fine. Just make 
sure your edition has line numbers. There are also an enormous number of
 comedias freely available online through either the Comedia website or the Association for Hispanic Classical Theatre.  • Miguel de Cervantes, La Numancia,
Alfredo Hermengildo (ed.) (Madrid, Castalia, 1994). • Tirso de Molina, El burlador de
Sevilla, Alfredo Rodríguez López-Vázquez (ed.) (Madrid, Cátedra, 2000). • Lope de Vega, Lo fingido verdadero,
M.T. Cattaneo (ed.) (Roma, Bulzoni, 1992). • Calderón de la Barca, Pedro, La vida es sueño, José M Ruano de la
Haza (ed.) (Madrid, Castalia, 1994). Background reading: • Ignacio Arellano, Historia del teatro
Español del siglo XVII (Madrid, Cátedra, 1995). • José María Díez Borque, Sociedad y
teatro en la España de Lope de Vega, Antoni Bosch (ed.) (Barcelona, Bosch
Editorial, 1978). • Emilio Cotarelo y Mori, Bibliografía
de las controversias sobre la licitud del teatro en España (Madrid, Revista
de Archivos y Museos, 1904). • Melveena McKendrick, Theatre in
Spain, 1490 - 1700 (Cambridge University Press, 1989). • Jeremy Robbins, The Challenges of
Uncertainty: An Introduction to Seventeenth-Century Spanish Literature
(London, Duckworth, 1998), Section VI - Forming and Performing Identity, pp.
117 - 131. • J. M. Ruano de la Haza and John J.
Allen, Los teatros comerciales del siglo XVII y la escenificación de la
comedia (Madrid, Editorial Castalia, Nueva Biblioteca de Erudición y
Crítica, 1994). • Alexander Samson and Jonathan Thacker
(eds.), A Companion to Lope de Vega (London, Tamesis, 2008).  • N. D. Shergold, A History of the
Spanish Stage from Medieval Times to the end of the Seventeenth Century
(Oxford, Clarendon, 1969). • Edward Wilson and Duncan Moir, A
Literary History of Spain: The Golden Age: Drama 1492 - 1700 (London,
Ernest Benn Ltd, 1971). • Jonathan Thacker, A Companion to
Golden Age Theatre (London, Tamesis, 2007).Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				DUTC4001 - Dutch Language 3DUTC4201 – Making Modern Dutch LiteratureDUTC4205 - Contemporary
Culture and History of the Low CountriesDUTC4502A - Advanced
Translation (from Dutch into English)DUTC4901 - Project in Dutch  FREN4001 - Use of French FREN4002 - French Oral FREN4003 - French Essay FREN4004 - Advanced Translation FREN4005 - Translation I FREN4006 - Translation II FREN4104 - Writing the Self in Post-War France: Aspects of Life-Writing FREN4105 - Dominating Texts: Literary Power Relations in 20th Century Writing FREN4107 - Jean-Paul Sartre: Novels and Other Writings FREN4115 - Legendary Histories FREN4118 - Oriental Encounters  FREN4119 - Realism: Looking Awry in Nineteenth-Century France FREN4209 - Cultures of AIDS in France: History, Policy and Representation  FREN4212 - The Swiss New Wave FREN4214 - Reading Tintin  FREN4217 - Fiction and the Archives FREN4218 - The Front National and Far Right Politics in France FREN4219 - Discourses of Equality FREN4311 - Topics in Modern French HistoryGERM4001 - Modern German LanguageGERM4001A - Modern German Language (Term1)GERM4001B - Modern German Language (Term2)GERM4002 - Discussion and
Essay in German GERM4103 - Wolfram von Eschenbach's 'Parzival' GERM4125 - Austrian LiteratureGERM4126 - Recording Revolt: 1967 in Germany and afterGERM4127 - German Fiction and German HistoryGERM4129 - Language, Power
and Ideology GERM4131 - Modern German ArtGERM4133 - Reading Modern
Novels GERM4141 - German Literature
and Psychology GERM4144 - Black GermanyGERM4145 - SurveillanceGERM4146 - EmpathyITAL4040 - Final Year Italian LanguageITAL4102 - Nation, Culture
and SocietyITAL4127 - Identity and Performance in Renaissance Italy ITAL4909 – The Contemporary Italian NovelITAL4914 – Memory and History in Twentieth Century ItalyITAL4926 - Marriage and Divorce Italian Style (1861-1975)ITAL6001/6002/6004 - English Academic Writing and Translation Skills (for Italian Affiliates only)SCAN4001 - Advanced DanishSCAN4002 - Advanced SwedishSCAN4003 - Advanced NorwegianSCAN4006 - Advanced Project Work in Danish, Norwegian or SwedishSCAN4007 - Translation from
the Scandinavian LanguagesSCAN4201 - Dissertation in
Scandinavian StudiesSCAN4202 - Crime and Small
Communities in Nordic LiteratureSCAN4401 - Advanced Old NorseSCAN4402 - The Vikings in EuropeSCAN7006 - Nordic Landscapes in text, image and soundSCAN7203 - Extended Essay in
Scandinavian StudiesSCAN7214 - Vikings and
Valkyries in Contemporary CultureSCAN7310 - Nordic Politics
and Society, 1990s and After SCAN7405 - Viking-Age Scandinavia SCAN7540 - Nordic CinemaSPAN4001 - Spanish Language
IIISPAN4112 - Latin American Vanguard
MovementsSPAN4115 - The Literary World of J.L. BorgesSPAN4117 - The Works of Cervantes Part ISPAN4304 - Spanish Film from the 1990s: New Ways of Seeing(ii)SPAN4307 - Cultural Dilemmas IISPAN4308 - The City in Latin American CultureSPAN4400 - Topics in Spanish and latin American HistorySPAN4408 - The Battle for Memory
in the Contemporary Spanish Novel: Part I, The Transition to DemocracySPAN4411 - Childhood in Latin American CinemaSPAN4414 - The Andean World of J.M. ArguedasSPAN4415 - Reading and Writing Spanish Microfiction





 



These modules are compulsory for those on the 'with Portuguese' diets, 
and then available to single honours students (subject to availability).PORT4010 - Advanced PortuguesePORT4420 - Portugal and its Empire in the 20th Century: Trajectories and MemoriesPORT4421 - Short Fiction and the Making of Modern Brazil   These modules are not available to joint honours students. HIST6410 - History of Latin America c.1830-c.1930  Please note - this 1.0cu module is subject to availability (please be aware the History
department may not be in a position to approve/reject requests until the Friday
before the week teaching commences) and approval from the SELCS UG Tutor.  
Guidance on registering for History modules.LCUL4001 – Dissertation in Language and
CultureThe Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 1 Tutor: Professor Andrew LeakAssessment: One 3-hour desk exam (weighting 100%).Module Description: This module focuses on what is sometimes called the ‘early Sartre’: the
 period from the publication of Sartre’s first novel to the end of World
 War Two – the moment at which ‘existentialism’ took off as the dominant
 intellectual vogue of the post-war period. The module includes two 
novels, a book of short stories, a play
 and a text written to ‘explain’ existentialism to the general public. 
Students following the module will, by the end of it, be thoroughly 
conversant with one of the most significant intellectual movements of 
the twentieth century, and with its manifestations in a range of 
literary genres and forms.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2 Tutor: To be confirmed Assessment: 1 assessed essay (50%) and a two-hour desk examination (50%) Module Description:This module will look at a key period, event or theme in modern French history (1789
onwards) and will also develop students’ understanding of historical
methodologies to an advanced level. Students will study key historical
developments of the Francophone world with a view to understanding the social,
political and cultural landscape of modern France. They will also develop tools
for historical analysis and research-based learning. By the end of the module, they will have a detailed
understanding of the principles of historical method, particularly source
interpretation and the presentation of an informed argument, and will have
developed these skills to a high standard in the assessed work. Students are
not expected to have studied history before to be eligible to take this module. More details regarding bibliography and course content will be made available during Term 1. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0
course units / 15 ECTS PG Value: 30 UCL credits / 30 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 300Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2
 
 Tutor: Linda van AbelTeaching Structure:This module is available
 to both Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten 
two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in 
which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: one
unseen three-hour written examination (40%); one oral assessment (15%); and
written coursework/problem papers (45%).PG Assessment: one
unseen three-hour written examination (50%); one oral assessment (25%); and
written coursework/problem papers (25%).Module Description:The module aims for students
to become critical intercultural users of Dutch in both spoken and written
form. Students are prepared for the complexity of communication in a fast
changing global and multicultural world. The course provides practice in
language used in work and social situations by emphasising the contextual
demands of audience, aim and genre in a wide range of communicative situations.
Work in class and homework tasks concentrate on developing awareness of
stylistics especially in relation to the contexts of situation and culture. In addition, this module
encourages students to develop their own ‘voices’ and see to what degree this
could be adopted or altered depending on the needs of the context of the
communicative task. Grammar and vocabulary work
are an integral part of all language tasks. Grammar points are discussed in
class where and when needed, but students will also be expected to self-correct
and apply their grammatical knowledge in revising their drafts.  Home work
tasks are an important part of the course, as they help to develop the
necessary skills. These tasks are also assessed in a Language PortfolioAttention is paid to
creativity, as well as to issues affecting the world of work and business.
Tasks range from writing creatively in several genres, e.g.  travel
reports/blogs/memoir and (semi)-professional (e.g. journalistic articles,
presenting coherent  and convincing oral and written arguments, writing
formal letters and e-mails, debating and so on. Students will also design,
prepare and teach a listening class to their fellow students. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:TBC Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSPG Value: 30 UCL credits / 15 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 2 
 
 Tutor: Hans DemeyerTeaching Structure:This module is available
 to both Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten 
two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in 
which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: two 3000 word essays, weighted equally.PG Assessment: two 3000 word essays, weighted equally.Module Description:This module provides students with the opportunity to study writers 
whose work has had a major impact on the modern literary canon. The module looks at the institution of Dutch literature from the 
mid-nineteenth century until today. There will be a number of case 
studies of individual authors taken from different periods and 
representing literature from the Netherlands and Flanders. Currently 
these authors are Carry van Bruggen, Hugo Claus and Cees Nooteboom.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:The Literary FieldCarry van BruggenHugo ClausPlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSPG Value: 30 UCL credits / 15 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)
Term: Term 2 Tutor:  Ulrich TiedauTeaching Structure:This module is available to both Final 
Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: the best three out of four 1500 word essays (100%)PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%)Module Description:In the period since the Second
World War there have been many changes in the societies and cultures of the Low
Countries. This module looks at four important areas of change from a
historical perspective and will deal with the history and culture of Women,
Immigrants, Space, and Memory in the Low Countries, from the 19th
century onwards. The module will look at how current concerns can be traced
back in Dutch society and provide students with a deeper knowledge of Dutch
culture and society as well as important theories related to the key topics.
This module builds on the first and second year core modules DUTC1301- Communities and
Identities in the Low Countries and DUTC2301- Investigating Cultures and offers an opportunity to
further develop cultural analysis concepts, skills and techniques while
exploring selected topics of contemporary Dutch and Belgian history and
culture.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:There is no set textbook for this module. Readings and handouts will be provided in class and on Moodle.
 However, you may find the following textbook, a standard history of the
 Low Countries, useful for background information (copies of which are 
held in the College library):Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSPG Value: 30 UCL credits / 15 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (UG)Term: Term 1 Tutor: Christine SasTeaching structure: A one-term module taught in weekly two-hour classes which consist of a translation workshop and reflection on translation. Final-year undergraduate students study alongside MA students who are following the graduate version of this course.MA students have four 
additional tutorial hours in which to extend and deepen their 
exploration of the subject.UG Assessment:  100% coursework, normally consisting of an annotated translation and an essay or commentary.PG Assessment: One 4,000-word essay (50%) and one 1,000 translation (50%). Module Description:An advanced translation module combining reflection on the translation process with regular exercises in translating from Dutch into English covering a variety of text types. Students learn to develop a translation strategy, analyse texts for translation and translated literary texts, and are encouraged to develop their own approach to translation. Time is also devoted to practical skills such as editing and proofreading, accessing a range of printed and electronic lexicographical and bibliographical resources.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Links to online resources will be provided in the Moodle site for this module.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.  The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSPG Value: 30 UCL credits / 15 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 1 
 
 Tutor: Christine SasTeaching Structure:This module is available
 to both Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten 
two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in 
which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: one 4,000 word Essay - 100%PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay - 100%Module Description:A project written in Dutch on an approved topic in an area of Dutchliterature, linguistics, modern history, society or culture. The module consists of three elements:If possible, depending on student interests, students work on shared projects. The projects cover specific aspects of the modern Low Countries. They involve collaborative research and coordination of activities as part of project management. The project report is a substantial composition in Dutch offering an in-depth exploration of a particular topic.This module offers final year or affiliate students the opportunity to study a topic in depth, that is not currently covered by other modules in the Department of Dutch.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Jann Matlock Assessment: two assessed 3,000 word essays (50% each)Module Description:  “There is
a very dangerous thing in literature,” wrote one of Balzac’s critics in 1847,
“and that is the excess of truth.” Like many critics of the mid-nineteenth
century, this one worried that novelists were unveiling things one might simply
not want to see. What he called the “incessant, merciless observation”
of the “physiological” novelists came increasingly to be labelled by other
critics as a “realist” vision that endangered literary and social values. Twentieth
century critics--among them Lukács, Auerbach, Barthes, and Jameson--have given
us retooled notions of what served, in the nineteenth century, as a label of
denigration. We take for granted today that the nineteenth century novel
tradition includes something we might call “realist” and that the visual
avant-garde of the mid-nineteenth century might best be grouped under that
label.  This
module sets out to re-examine those premises, in particular, by looking at the
material conditions for the definition of “realism” in the nineteenth century.
Through readings of contemporary press criticism of the novel and painting, we
will try to reposition the concept of realism. Through discussions of
nineteenth-century theories of vision we will elaborate a different framework
for thinking about the realist gaze. Student presentations will develop new
ways of thinking about nineteenth-century observation and the visual and
literary realms it engaged. Topics to
be considered: Realism as a critical concept; “realism” in Stendhal and
Delacroix and the tragedies of history; Balzac and vision; the social novel;
women “realists”?; the reception of Courbet and Manet; censorship and the
realist novel; naturalism, the morgue, and the ends of realism; and
photography’s real. Novels by Stendhal, Balzac, Sue, Flaubert, and Zola.
Painting, photography, 19th-century criticism, and contemporary theoretical
texts also to be considered.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Full yearConvenor: Ms Marie FournierTutor: Various Assessment: one twenty-five minute oral examination (100%). Satisfactory 
completion of the coursework is normally a prerequisite for examination 
entry. In the examination, which reflects the module content, students will be 
required to give a summary of a text in French (which they will receive a
 few days before the examination) and answer questions showing an 
analytical response to this text. They are also required to give a 
presentation on and discuss a topic of their own choice (the topic must 
not overlap with material on which students have been or will be 
examined in other parts of their module).Module Description:This final-year core module aims to encourage fluency in responsive and discursive forms.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 1 and Term 2Tutor: Professor Andy LeakAssessment: one unseen three-hour written exam (100%). Satisfactory completion of the coursework is normally a prerequisite for examination entry.Available to: Compulsory for single-subject students. This module is also available to francophone Modern Language, Modern Language Plus and ESPS students who wish to take this instead of FREN4002 - French Oral (see note for FREN4002- French Oral). The module is not available to combined-subject students.Module Description:This final-year module is compulsory for single-subject students and recommended for Erasmus students.  This module is concerned with the translation from French into English of literary texts, both in poetry and in prose. The aim is to provide students with the techniques required for this challenging form of translation and to give them the opportunity, on a weekly basis, to apply those techniques to a range of literary texts. To this end, students will make translations of prose passages and of short lyric and prose poems; they will also write extended ‘translation commentaries’ that focus on those aspects that were most problematic and/or interesting for the translator. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Thibaut RaboinAvailable to: The module is designed primarily for SELCS affiliate students but other students, including other affiliates from ART or other faculties, may be allowed on the course subject to availability of places and approval from the students' home departments. The areas covered will not overlap with those of FREN4006.Assessment: Coursework - 3 translation assignments (30%, 30%, 40%) Module Description:The module involves the translation of non-literary text from French into English. Broad areas that will be covered:- Journalistic (e.g. features, reportage (incl. headlines), faits divers, small-ads, horoscopes, sports reporting etc.)- Technical ( ‘New Scientist’ type popular science, manuals and various ‘modes d’emploi’, catalogues and specifications)- Consumer-oriented (this overlaps with all of the above: e.g. promotion masquerading as travel-writing, the performance specs of cars, electrical goods, advertisements of all kinds etc. etc.)Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Thibaut RaboinAvailable to: The module is designed primarily for SELCS affiliate students but other students, including  other affiliates from ART or other faculties, may be allowed on the module subject to availability of places and approval from the students' home departments. The areas covered will not overlap
 with those of FREN4005.Assessment: Coursework - 3 translation assignments (30%, 30%, 40%) Module Description: The module involves the translation of non-literary text from French into English. Broad areas that will be covered:- Academic Writing (articles, monographs, abstracts, ‘pitches to publishers’, research projects outlines)- Political Discourse (posters, banners, speeches etc.)- Cultural Journalism (book and film reviews etc.)Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 credits Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG) Term: Term 2 Tutor: James AgarTeaching Structure:This module is available to both
 Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (100%)PG Assessment: coursework (100 %) Module Description:This module will address a range of aesthetic, political or
theoretical issues which arise from the practice of modern ‘life-writing’.
Attention will be given to the particular socio-historical contexts of textual
production in order to ascertain what differences and similarities there might
be between the practice of ‘writing the self’ in and between the set texts. We
will also consider the implications of the practice of reading ‘life-writing’:
does this mode of writing invite and/or impose an unwritten contract on the
reader?; how might reading soi-disant ‘literary’ texts be modified by
theoretical issues/texts (and vice versa)?; what issues of authenticity,
believability and trust are aroused through reading ‘life-writing’?; can
‘life-writing’ be categorised as a specific genre?; what are the formal and
thematic differences between autobiography, memoir or diary, fiction and autofiction? We will also address
differences which might be reflected in ‘life-writing’ through, for example,
gender, sexuality and class and will discuss the relations between life, death
and art, writing and identity, memory and the conscious and unconscious self.
In addition to the set literary texts, there will be substantial reading
required of additional non-literary texts (provided on moodle). Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 credits Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG) Term: Term 2 Tutor: James AgarTeaching Structure:This module is available to both
 Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (100%)PG Assessment: coursework (100 %) Module Description:This module will address a range of aesthetic, political or
theoretical issues which arise from the practice of modern ‘life-writing’.
Attention will be given to the particular socio-historical contexts of textual
production in order to ascertain what differences and similarities there might
be between the practice of ‘writing the self’ in and between the set texts. We
will also consider the implications of the practice of reading ‘life-writing’:
does this mode of writing invite and/or impose an unwritten contract on the
reader?; how might reading soi-disant ‘literary’ texts be modified by
theoretical issues/texts (and vice versa)?; what issues of authenticity,
believability and trust are aroused through reading ‘life-writing’?; can
‘life-writing’ be categorised as a specific genre?; what are the formal and
thematic differences between autobiography, memoir or diary, fiction and autofiction? We will also address
differences which might be reflected in ‘life-writing’ through, for example,
gender, sexuality and class and will discuss the relations between life, death
and art, writing and identity, memory and the conscious and unconscious self.
In addition to the set literary texts, there will be substantial reading
required of additional non-literary texts (provided on moodle). Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 credits Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (UG) Term: Term 2Tutor: Professor Mairéad HanrahanTeaching Structure:This module is available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (100%).PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%)Module Description:This module will focus in depth on the first volume of the novel which perhaps morethan any other work dominated French literature in the twentieth century, Proust’s Ala recherche du temps perdu, before studying texts by a number of other importantwriters who wrote in Proust’s wake. Domination inevitably implies a power struggle;at the heart of the questions the module will explore is the relationship betweenliterature and power. By means of close textual analysis, we shall examine how theprescribed texts all thematise domination in some form, notably with regard to socialand sexual relations. Sometimes they universalise it, suggesting that intersubjectiverelations are necessarily hierarchical; sometimes they explore the possibility ofsubverting it, beckoning towards a mode of relation that need not involve thesubmission of one element to another, positing the existence of a non-subordinatingdominance, a dominance that does not dominate. The texts also raise questions ofintertextual
 domination: what makes for a specifically literary power? is beauty a 
form of power? does a very powerful text overshadow others, or on the 
contrary call them into being in response to its appeal? Finally, the 
seminars will discuss the power relationship between reader and text: is
 a powerful text precisely one that can never be mastered? And, if 
reading is not an exercise in domination, what is it?Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 credits Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG) Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Jane GilbertTeaching Structure:This course is available to both
 Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG assessment: one 3,000-word essay (50%) and one unseen 90-minute written examination (50%).PG assessment: one 6,000-word essay (100%)Module Description:According to H. E. Bates’s famous dictum, ‘The past is
 another country – they do things differently there’. In this module, we
 shall look at how our medieval past presented its past, and 
particularly at the ways in which – like us, but differently from us – 
medieval people interwove history with legend. We shall read works in 
which the inhabitants of the past appear almost superhuman – and are 
sometimes literally inhuman – in their greatness and terror. ‘We’ the 
readers may consider ourselves heirs to this greatness, or well rid of 
this terror, or both. Moreover, all the texts that we shall study have 
been extremely significant in the construction of European identities 
both national and international. We shall investigate some of the uses 
made of these texts by medieval writers, readers and patrons, looking at
 their subversive potential as well as their propaganda value. In each 
case, legend inserts an uncanny quality into the histories that 
contemporaries construct around themselves. Robert
 de Boron’s Merlin is a short prose romance, the centre of a trilogy 
tracing the story of the Holy Grail and of Arthur’s dominion, thus 
entwining the history of Britain with the cosmic Christian story. At its
 heart is the half-demon Merlin, a figure from Celtic myth with a 
mysterious ability to shapeshift and to know all events past, present 
and future. Merlin and the Grail rapidly went on to become central yet 
troubling figures within European historiography, and retain some of 
that status even today. Although modern Europe may
 consider its birthplace to be Ancient Greece, medieval people thought 
that Europeans represented a Trojan diaspora. Every country had its own 
descent myth, inspired ultimately by Virgil’s Aeneid, and considered its
 chief city a ‘New Troy’. We shall read extracts from the mighty verse 
romance known as the Roman de Troie. The Troie presents the public and 
private upheaval of the Trojan War, including the fall of Troy and 
foundation of Western Europe on the one hand, and the many private 
tragedies on the other: Paris and Helen, Troilus and Criseyde, Achilles 
and Polyxena, and so on. A prequel to Virgil, the Troie details what for
 medieval people was the mother, pattern and explanation of all 
subsequent European and world wars. Finally, the 
verse Roman d’Alexandre follows the fortunes of the man who conquered 
the whole of the known world – including many parts known only by 
hearsay and, frankly, unlikely. In this romance Alexander also flies, 
takes a trip in a submarine, and visits ‘the marvels of the Orient’. 
Alexander was the exemplary medieval king: brave, generous and learned. 
He was an inspiration to would-be conquerors. Equally importantly, his 
biography presented medieval readers with natural and artificial 
marvels, offering them powerful experiences of exoticism and alterity 
that could not be subdued. The Alexandre presents the history of 
humanity and of the empire of the world as unChristian and alien. We 
shall read most of the Alexandre (minus the ‘Fuerre de Gadres’ episode),
 thus bringing it down to manageable length.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Further
 preparatory reading is available on request, however students’ main 
task is to familiarise themselves with the set texts.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 credits Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG) Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Jane GilbertTeaching Structure:This course is available to both
 Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG assessment: one 3,000-word essay (50%) and one unseen 90-minute written examination (50%).PG assessment: one 6,000-word essay (100%)Module Description:According to H. E. Bates’s famous dictum, ‘The past is
 another country – they do things differently there’. In this module, we
 shall look at how our medieval past presented its past, and 
particularly at the ways in which – like us, but differently from us – 
medieval people interwove history with legend. We shall read works in 
which the inhabitants of the past appear almost superhuman – and are 
sometimes literally inhuman – in their greatness and terror. ‘We’ the 
readers may consider ourselves heirs to this greatness, or well rid of 
this terror, or both. Moreover, all the texts that we shall study have 
been extremely significant in the construction of European identities 
both national and international. We shall investigate some of the uses 
made of these texts by medieval writers, readers and patrons, looking at
 their subversive potential as well as their propaganda value. In each 
case, legend inserts an uncanny quality into the histories that 
contemporaries construct around themselves. Robert
 de Boron’s Merlin is a short prose romance, the centre of a trilogy 
tracing the story of the Holy Grail and of Arthur’s dominion, thus 
entwining the history of Britain with the cosmic Christian story. At its
 heart is the half-demon Merlin, a figure from Celtic myth with a 
mysterious ability to shapeshift and to know all events past, present 
and future. Merlin and the Grail rapidly went on to become central yet 
troubling figures within European historiography, and retain some of 
that status even today. Although modern Europe may
 consider its birthplace to be Ancient Greece, medieval people thought 
that Europeans represented a Trojan diaspora. Every country had its own 
descent myth, inspired ultimately by Virgil’s Aeneid, and considered its
 chief city a ‘New Troy’. We shall read extracts from the mighty verse 
romance known as the Roman de Troie. The Troie presents the public and 
private upheaval of the Trojan War, including the fall of Troy and 
foundation of Western Europe on the one hand, and the many private 
tragedies on the other: Paris and Helen, Troilus and Criseyde, Achilles 
and Polyxena, and so on. A prequel to Virgil, the Troie details what for
 medieval people was the mother, pattern and explanation of all 
subsequent European and world wars. Finally, the 
verse Roman d’Alexandre follows the fortunes of the man who conquered 
the whole of the known world – including many parts known only by 
hearsay and, frankly, unlikely. In this romance Alexander also flies, 
takes a trip in a submarine, and visits ‘the marvels of the Orient’. 
Alexander was the exemplary medieval king: brave, generous and learned. 
He was an inspiration to would-be conquerors. Equally importantly, his 
biography presented medieval readers with natural and artificial 
marvels, offering them powerful experiences of exoticism and alterity 
that could not be subdued. The Alexandre presents the history of 
humanity and of the empire of the world as unChristian and alien. We 
shall read most of the Alexandre (minus the ‘Fuerre de Gadres’ episode),
 thus bringing it down to manageable length.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Further
 preparatory reading is available on request, however students’ main 
task is to familiarise themselves with the set texts.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2Tutor: To be confirmedTeaching structure: SeminarsAssessment: 1 assessed essay of 3000 words (50%) and a two-hour desk examination (50%).Module Description:This course explores the tradition of the Voyage to
the Orient (17thC-19thC). The study of cultural encounters has emerged in
recent years as a privileged field for re-thinking fundamental questions about
problems of perception, human subjectivity and identity. Starting with French
early-modern explorations of India, we will examine issues of gender, sexuality
and religious beliefs and practices intersected with perceptions of the exotic
East. We will then read extracts from Raynal’s Histoires des Deux Indes; Pierre Loti’s
account of Egypt; and Flaubert’s Voyage
en Orient, thus exploring the means and modes of European
colonisation, while testing the limits of an orientalist discourse. We will end
with a critical reading of the opening chapter of Claude Levi-Strauss’ Tristes Tropiques,
ominously entitled ‘La fin des voyages’. 
Travel writing has been a growing area in recent scholarship. This module will
also offer the opportunity to explore key notions and theories: Orientalism,
cultural relativism and cultural pluralism, historicism and post/colonialism,
while focusing on the experience of the traveller without ruling out or
oversimplifying the process of ‘knowing the other’. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Initial Secondary Bibliography:Ames, Glenn J. and Love, Ronald S., Eds., Distant Lands and Diverse Cultures: The French Experience in Asia, 1600-1700. Westport, Connecticut: Praeger, 2003.Behdad, Ali, Belated Travelers: Orientalism in the Age of Colonial Dissolution. Duke UP, 1994. Clifford, James, Writing Culture: the Poetics and Politics of Ethnography, ed. with G. Marcus. University of California Press, 1986.Elsner, Jaś, and Rubiés, Joan-Pau, Eds., Voyages and visions: towards a cultural history of travel. London: Reaktion Books, 1999.Forsdick, Charles (as much for the introduction and bibliography as anything): in New Approaches to Twentieth-Century Travel Literature in French: Genre, History, Theory. New York: Peter Lang, 2006.                                                                          Claude Lévi-Strauss, ‘La fin des voyages’, in Tristes Tropiques. Presses Pocket. (Digitised and available on Moodle via the Reading List link)Porter, Dennis, Haunted Journeys: Desire and Transgression in European Travel Writing. Princeton University Press, 1991.Said, Edward, Orientalism. Penguin Books, 1991.The Cambridge Companion to Travel Writing, eds Peter Hulme and Tim Youngs (2002; 2006) and Écrire le voyage, G. Tverdota ed. Paris: Presses de la Sorbonne nouvelle, 1994.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 credits Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG) Term: Term 1  Tutor: James AgarTeaching Structure:This module is available to both
 Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG assessment: two assessed 3000 word essays (50% each).PG assessment: two assessed 3500 and 4000 word essays.Module Description:This module will examine the development of representations and debates aroundAIDS
 in France from the early 1980s to the close of the twentieth century. 
The module will take a broadly cultural studies approach and, through 
the analysis of political and sociological texts, will examine the role 
of French medical research in the isolation and naming of the 
virus/disease and the development of French government policy toward the
 disease in terms of prevention campaigns and political rhetoric. We 
shall also study, in depth, a range of ‘literary’ and filmic texts which
 address the issue of AIDS and debates around AIDS. The module will 
address a range of themes related to these interlinking areas: 
government policy versus non-government sponsored AIDS activism in 
France; the setting up and development of self-help organisations; 
issues related to gender and (gay) sexuality; the individual and 
different notions of community; the politics of representing and 
‘reading’ AIDS. Although the focus will be on AIDS in France, comparison
 will be made with other countries and cultures in order to highlight 
some of the ideological and political inflections specific to AIDS in 
modern France.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:‘Literary’ textsFilmic texts (viewings will be arranged)History and policyPlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 credits Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG) Term: Term 1  Tutor: James AgarTeaching Structure:This module is available to both
 Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG assessment: two assessed 3000 word essays (50% each).PG assessment: two assessed 3500 and 4000 word essays.Module Description:This module will examine the development of representations and debates aroundAIDS
 in France from the early 1980s to the close of the twentieth century. 
The module will take a broadly cultural studies approach and, through 
the analysis of political and sociological texts, will examine the role 
of French medical research in the isolation and naming of the 
virus/disease and the development of French government policy toward the
 disease in terms of prevention campaigns and political rhetoric. We 
shall also study, in depth, a range of ‘literary’ and filmic texts which
 address the issue of AIDS and debates around AIDS. The module will 
address a range of themes related to these interlinking areas: 
government policy versus non-government sponsored AIDS activism in 
France; the setting up and development of self-help organisations; 
issues related to gender and (gay) sexuality; the individual and 
different notions of community; the politics of representing and 
‘reading’ AIDS. Although the focus will be on AIDS in France, comparison
 will be made with other countries and cultures in order to highlight 
some of the ideological and political inflections specific to AIDS in 
modern France.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:‘Literary’ textsFilmic texts (viewings will be arranged)History and policyPlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Roland-François LackAssessment: two assessed 3,000 word essays (50% each).Module Description: This module will provide an introduction to filmmaking in 
French-speaking Switzerland by concentrating on important works by 
Michel Soutter and Alain Tanner from the moment of the Swiss New Wave 
(1966-72), viewed in relation to later work from the ‘70s by these and 
other Swiss filmmakers (Claude Goretta, Patricia Moraz, Yves Yersin and 
Jean-Luc Godard). Alongside considerations of form, we shall focus 
on recurrent thematic preoccupations in these films, including the 
city/country opposition, the idea of Swissness and questions of gender 
representation. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: Primary films: Secondary reading and viewing matter will be recommended at a later date.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 1 Tutor: Marie FournierAssessment: one 3000-word essay (50%) and one two-hour desk examination (50%).Module Description:The module introduces students – with no necessary prior knowledge of the genre – to the study of the bande dessinée
 form, through the close study of six works in the Tintin collection of 
Belgian author Hergé (Georges Prosper Rémi). Readings of Hergé’s texts 
will be undertaken from a variety of critical perspectives: historical, 
post/colonial, narratological. Students will become familiar not only 
with the primary texts but also with relevant secondary materials 
dealing with the graphic quality of the texts and the modes of 
articulation of text and image.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Thibaut Maus de RolleyTeaching structure: SeminarsAssessment: 2 assessed essays (50% each) of 3000 words each.Module Description:We will examine in this module three famous criminal cases from the early modern period, and the series of texts that each of them generated: (i) the ‘affaire Martin Guerre’ (1560), a case of imposture and stolen identity in sixteenth-century southwestern France; (ii) the trial of Louis Gaufridy, a priest burnt at the stake in 1611 for having allegedly caused the demonic possession of two young nuns in Aix-en-Provence; (iii) the brutal assassination of a young and rich aristocrat, the Marquise de Ganges, by her two brothers-in-law (1667). We will read and discuss a wide range of (short) accounts of these three faits divers: manuscript court records, popular pamphlets, collections of histoires tragiques and causes célèbres, and a short novel (by the Marquis de Sade). But we will also look, beyond the early modern period, at 
modern reconstructions of these stories offered by historians and 
filmmakers – eg. the 1982 film Le Retour de Martin Guerre, and Natalie 
Zemon Davis’s historical study of the case (1983).The study of these stories of imposture, witchcraft, and murder in cold blood, will allow us to approach essential aspects of early modern social and legal history, and to explore the many forms taken in the early modern period by a thriving littérature du crime, at the intersection of law and literature. It will also be an opportunity to analyse in depth the processes of 'rewriting' that turn the archival account of a legal case into a well-crafted story, and a historical document into 'literature.'Set Primary Material:I. L'affaire Martin Guerre (Weeks 1-4)II. L'affaire Gaufridy (Weeks 5-7)III. La Marquise de Ganges (Weeks 8-10)A bibliography of secondary literature will be provided at the beginning of the course.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2Tutor: Professor Philippe MarlièreAssessment: 2 assessed essays (50% each) of 3000 words eachModule Description:This final year module offers an in-depth study of the Front National and far right politics in contemporary France. It starts by mapping out the origins and different strands of thought within the French far right from the late 19th century onwards. It aims to identify the core values and ideas of the far right, as well as the extent to which it forms a consistent political ideology. Then, the course concentrates on the Front National (FN), the most successful far right party in contemporary France. It pays attention to the FN’s most underlying political features; its sociological transformation over time, notably from the mid-1980s up to now. Other aspects of the study include: sociology of party membership and electorate, and main policies and ideas. The module eventually addresses more topical issues such as: is the FN still a “far right” party or has it morphed into a more mainstream party of the “national right”, as Marine Le Pen insists on? Are FN policies compatible with the French constitution and republican polity? Is it pertinent to label the FN a “populist” or “national populist” party?This is an option which is suited to students who wish to deepen their knowledge of French politics and engage with French political science literature.Preparatory Reading:Cécile Alduy,
Stéphane Wahnich, Marine Le Pen prise aux mots, Paris, Seuil, 2015.Ariane Chebel
d’Appollonia, Les Frontières du racisme. Identités, ethnicité, citoyenneté,
Paris, Presses de Sciences Po, 2011.Sylvain Crépon,
Enquête au cœur du nouveau Front National, Paris, Nouveau Monde, 2012.Alexandre Dézé,
Le Front national: à la conquête du pouvoir?, Paris, Armand Colin,‎ 2012.Valérie Igounet,
Le Front national de 1972 à nos jours. Le parti, les hommes, les idées, Paris,
Éditions du Seuil, 2014.Nonna Mayer, Ces
Français qui votent Le Pen, Paris, Flammarion, 2002.James Shield, The Extreme Right in France: From Pétain to Le
Pen, London, Routledge, 2007.Zeev Sternell, La
Droite révolutionnaire: les origines françaises du fascisme, Paris, Seuil,
1978.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 credits Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG) Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Kevin InstonTeaching Structure:This module is available to both Final 
Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: 2 assessed essays (50% each) of 3000 words eachPG Assessment: 1 assessed essays of 6000 words Module Description:The question of how we define equality, who counts as equal or whether a society can be completely egalitarian in its organisation preoccupies democratic politics and political theory. Does equality imply totally identical levels of material wealth and chances? Or does it entail the equal right to cultural or social differences? Are freedom and equality compatible? How do individuals considered unequal demand equality without simply inverting hierarchical relations or replicating them by granting others the authority to decide if they count as equal or not? This module will explore these questions through a range of philosophical, anthropological and political writings. We begin with Rousseau’s Discours de l’inégalité which refutes any natural or divine foundation for social inequalities and affirms universal freedom and equality as the most legitimate basis for social organisation. That refutation underlies Abbé Sieyès’s influential revolutionary pamphlet that calls for equal political representation in government for all orders in French society. We shall then explore the anti-colonial writings of the anthropologist Michel Leiris and Simone de Beauvoir’s foundational feminist essay Le Deuxième Sexe. The module closes by looking at Jacques Rancière’s recent and original theory of active equality: equality is not something that is distributed or ensured by social institutions but is always declared and demonstrated by those who are not counted as equal by their communities.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:*Photocopies to be provided by tutor. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 1 and Term 2
Tutor: VariousTeaching Structure:This module is available to both Final 
Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (100%)PG assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (100%)Module Description:This is an enhanced final year / MA language module in
translation from and into German. It enhances understanding of idiom,
style and register, and develops advanced language mediation skills. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1Tutor: Dr Barbara LesterTeaching structure: The module entails translation from and into English,
covering 2 hours per week. 
Assessment: Continuous coursework assessment throughout the term.Available to: Affiliate students.Module Description:This is an enhanced final year module in translation from and into German. The material used  is taken from literary works and
journalistic texts, reflecting different styles of writing, old and modern, and
varying linguistic registers. All material can be accessed via Moodle.Depending on context, background information will be given,
of a political, historical or cultural nature, as deemed necessary and
appropriate. Brief discussion of topics encouraged if wanted by students. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Barbara LesterTeaching structure: the module covers 2 hours per week.
Assessment: Continuous coursework assessment throughout the term.Available to: affiliate students.Module Description:This is an enhanced final year module in translation from and into German. The material used  is taken from literary works and
journalistic texts, reflecting different styles of writing, old and modern, and
varying linguistic registers. All material can be accessed via Moodle.Depending on context, background information will be given,
of a political, historical or cultural nature, as deemed necessary and
appropriate. Brief discussion of topics encouraged if wanted by students.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 1
Tutor: Dr Sebastian CoxonTeaching Structure:This module is available to both Final 
Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay (50%); and one unseen
two-hour examination (50%)PG Assessment: one assessed 6,000 word essay (100%)Available to: Final Year students and MA studentsModule Description: Wolfram von Eschenbach is
acknowledged to be one of the greatest poets of the German Middle Ages, perhaps
the greatest, and as a narrative writer he can stand comparison with Chrétien
de Troyes, Dante and Chaucer. Parzival, an adaptation of Chrétien’s
Arthurian and Grail romance Le Conte du Graal, is a work of astonishing
depth and complexity which is further distinguished by a forceful and
interventionist narrator-figure who engages in lively debate with his subject
matter and above all with his readers (or listeners). The module will focus on the
medieval German text of Parzival in its entirety. We will refer to
Wolfram’s treatment of his French source (of which passages may be read in
English translation) and will set him in his historical context - literary,
political, social and religious. Topics to be covered will include narrative
strategies, codes and techniques; history and fictionality; ideologies of
chivalry and nobility; gender; courtly culture; religious belief. Set Text: Wolfram von Eschenbach: Parzival,
on the basis of Karl Lachmann’s 6th ed., with introduction by Bernd Schirok and
translation by Peter Knech (Berlin / New York, 1998) ‘Parzival’: Wolfram von
Eschenbach, translated by A. T. Hatto (London, Penguin Classics, 1980). Preparatory
Reading: · Joachim Bumke, Wolfram von Eschenbach, 8th
ed. (Stuttgart, Sammlung Metzler 36, 2004). · D. H. Green, The Art of Recognition in Wolfram’s
‘Parzival’ (Cambridge, 1982). · Timothy McFarland, ‘The Emergence of the German
Grail Romance. Wolfram von Eschenbach: Parzival’, in: The Arthur of the
Germans: The Arthurian Legend in Medieval German and Dutch Literature, eds
W. H. Jackson and S. A. Ranawake (Cardiff, Arthurian Literature in the Middle
Ages 3, 2000) pp. 54-68. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 1
Tutor: Dr Judith BenistonTeaching structure: This course is available
 to both Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten 
two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in 
which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG assessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay (50%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (50%). PG assessment: one assessed 6 000 word essay (100%) Module Description:In Austria the period
between approximately 1890 and 1938 was not only one of enormous political
upheavals (the collapse of the Habsburg Empire, the founding of the First
Austrian Republic, and its subsequent annexation to Nazi Germany), it was also
a time of intense cultural and intellectual ferment. Focusing on key works of
the Fin de siècle and of the interwar period, this course will explore
some of the distinctive preoccupations of Viennese modernism — sexuality and
the gendered self, aestheticism, and Sprachkrise — as well as examining literary
responses to questions of national identity and cultural tradition. Preparatory reading and
set texts:  Electronic versions of these texts are available. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Code: GERM4126Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
Level: Advanced Level (Level 6)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: term 2
Tutor: Dr Mererid DaviesAssessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay (50%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (50%)Module Description:The
1960s protest movements marked an astonishing moment for West Germany. They
developed a political critique, but above all they are distinctive for their
overwhelming emphasis on culture and the symbolic. In particular, reading and
writing had unique prestige for protesters, who produced an extraordinary writing
culture which was by turns polemical, witty, provocative, reflective and
offensive. This module explores some key literary and filmic works of the
period, in order to offer a detailed account of this culture of revolt and its
aftermath.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Film viewings will be arranged in the
department for the films to be studied. In most cases they are also available
for you to borrow via UCL Main Library if you’d like to view them
independently. Where it is noted that copies or extracts from texts will be
provided, these will be made available via Moodle.  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 2
Tutor: Dr Sebastian CoxonTeaching structure: One two-hour
seminar per week in Term II. 
Assessment: 1 assessed essay (50%); 1
two-hour exam (50%) Available to: Final Year students Module Description:
Grimmelshausen effectively launched the picaresque novel
as a literary form in Germany in the seventeenth century. His main works, which
were written as a cycle (the so-called ‘Simplicianische Schriften’), are
masterpieces of satire and gross comedy. Simplicissimus
(1668-1669) and Courasche (1670) are
fictional autobiographies chiefly set in the Germany of the Thirty Years War.
In telling their often bawdy and obscene stories the first-person narrators of
these works explore the impact of war and social conditioning on their lives
and the lives of their contemporaries. Springinsfeld
(1670) tells the story of a character who features both in Simplicissimus and in Courasche,
and Simplicissimus and Courasche feature in turn as characters in
Springinsfeld’s narrative, so that the two later novels expand and comment on Simplicissimus to produce one of the
most fascinating and dynamic fictional worlds that German literature has to
offer. The Simplician cycle is concluded with two further novels, Parts I and
II of Das wunderbarliche Vogelnest
(1672; 1675), which constitute further experiments in narrative voice and
literary comedy.In addition to examining the problem of the relationship
between fiction and history, the module will aim to introduce students to a
variety of approaches towards the analysis of pre-modern narrative. The
emphasis throughout will be on close reading of the text(s) and students will
be expected to develop a good knowledge of the Simplician cycle as a whole.Preparatory Reading
and Set Texts:· Grimmelshausen:
Der abenteuerliche Simplicissimus, ed. by Volker Meid, Stuttgart 1996etc
(Reclam 761)· Grimmelshausen:
Courasche, ed. by Klaus Haberkamm and Günther Weydt, Stuttgart 2001etc
(Stuttgart: Reclam 7998)· Grimmelshausen:
Springinsfeld, ed. by Klaus Haberkamm and Günther Weydt, Stuttgart 1976 etc
(Reclam 9814)· Hans Jacob
Christoffel von Grimmelshausen: Simplicissimus Teutsch, ed. by
Dieter Breuer, Frankfurt 2005 (Grimmelshausen Werke I:1)· Hans Jacob
Christoffel von Grimmelshausen: Courasche; Springinsfeld; Wunderbarliches
Vogelnest I und II; Rathstübel Plutonis, ed. by Dieter Breuer, Frankfurt 2007
(Grimmelshausen Werke I:2) Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of 
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the 
academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				PG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS UG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 1
Tutor: Dr Geraldine HoranTeaching Structure:This course is available
 to both Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten 
two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in 
which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG assessment: one assessed 2,500 
word essay (50%) and one take-home paper (50%). In addition to this, 
students will be required to give a short presentation on one aspect of 
the module topics. PG assessment: one assessed 3 000 word essay (50%) and one take-home paper (50%). In 
addition to this, students will be required to give a short presentation
 on one aspect of the module topics. Module Description:The module will examine the complex relationship 
between language, power, and ideology in Germany society, and will trace
 how language has been employed in the twentieth and twenty-first 
centuries by individuals, groups, organisations, and institutions to 
exercise power and to communicate a particular ideology or world-view. 
During this module, we will address a variety of linguistic topics and 
issues, including political discourse, defining 'propaganda' or 
'ideological language'; the misuse and abuse of language; the nature of 
linguistic groups; language planning. The analysis of primary texts will
 draw upon aspects of linguistic theory, including sociolinguistics, 
pragmatics, discourse analysis, and semantics.The module will focus in particular on the following topics:Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:General introductionLanguage and fascismLanguage and communismGroup discourses, identity and powerLanguage of media/advertisingPlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) / 300 (PG)Term: term 2
Tutor: Professor Mark HewitsonTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. UG Assessment: two 2,500 word essays (50% each)PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%)  Module Description:This module investigates painters' reactions to 
modernity during the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. 
Through the study of some of the most remarkable works of the modern 
avant-garde, and critical reviews of such works, students are encouraged
 to re-evaluate how the Academy, Symbolists, Expressionists and the 
artists of the Neue Sachlichkeit movement defined and reacted to the 
characteristics of the modern age. The module aims to introduce students
 to the history of art and ideas, and to complement modules in modern 
history, film and literature.Module outline1. Introduction: History of Art and Cultural History.2. Academy, Symbolism, and Secession: History, Myth, and Nation.3. Expressionism (i): Die Brücke.4. Expressionism (ii): Der Blaue Reiter.5. Dada and Neue Sachlichkeit: The Insanity of Reality.[READING WEEK]6. Bauhaus and Abstract Art: Form, Function, and Spirituality.7. The Self: Psychology and Art.8. War and the Art of Violence.9. Women and Men: Constructions of Gender.10. Metropolis: City, Nature, and Society.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Methodology and Theories of Art HistorySurveys of Art and Culture in Germany Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 2
Tutor: Reinier van StratenTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG assessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay (50%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (50%). **PG assessment: one assessed 6,000 word essay (100%).Module Description:This module looks at three major twentieth-century novels in detail. All
 three books explore the problem of interpretation and raise questions 
about how reality can be understood and represented. In each novel the 
narrative technique is a crucial tool for undermining the reader’s 
expectations, both in relation to specific historical events and in 
relation to the process of textual interpretation itself. The books 
challenge our desire for clarity and explanation in an era when the 
category of truth has been profoundly relativized.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please buy and read the following three set texts
before the autumn term begins:  ** Please note that this module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits /0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 2
Tutor: Dr Martin LiebscherTeaching Structure:This module is available
 to both Final Year students and MA students.  All students attend ten 
two-hour seminars. MA students have four additional tutorial hours in 
which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: two assessed 2500 word essays (50% each)PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%)Module Description:This module examines the interaction between
psychology and German literature in the late nineteenth and early twentieth
centuries. We will analyse a selection of literary texts that have either been
inspired by psychological findings or have been the subject of psychological
interpretations. This will not only give an insight in the psychological
theories of literature, but also help to understand the formation of psychology
as a science in the second half of the nineteenth century and the crucial role
literature played for the development of psychoanalysis around 1900. At the
same time, the module will investigate some of the ways in which psychoanalytic
and psychotherapeutic theories influenced the work of major writers such as
Arthur Schnitzler, Stefan Zweig and Hermann Hesse.Preparatory texts: Set texts :MA module in addition:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 postgraduate creditsLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) /300 (PG)Term: Term 2
Tutor: Dr Jeff BowersoxTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars taught in English consisting of lectures,
class discussions, and student presentations. MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. Moodle to be used as a repository
for reading materials as well as for preparatory assignments, and MyPortfolio
to be used as a platform for building a website. Students will also engage in
three webchats with students at the Universities of Michigan and Missouri to
discuss course material and themes.  UG Assessment: One web research project, 5,000 words (100%)PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%)Note: Students taking this module cannot take ELCS4030Module description:This module examines
the development of an African diaspora in Germany from the Renaissance to the
present-day, with emphasis on the dramatic shifts in regimes of the past 200
years. Along with surveying contexts in which Africans and their descendants
came to German-speaking lands, we will consider the diverse ways in which they
have shaped and been shaped by a society that variously tolerated, rejected, or
accepted them on specific terms. By paying due attention to transnational
contexts, the module will complicate ideas of a single black experience as well
as a monolithic and consistent idea of “Germanness.” Preparatory
texts and set reading:Bechhaus-Gerst and
Klein-Arendt (eds.), Die (koloniale) Begegnung. AfrikanerInnen in
Deutschland 1880-1945 – Deutsche in Afrika 1880-1918 (2003).Bindman and Gates (eds.), The Image of the Black in
Western Art, 5 vols. (2010-2014).Campt, Other Germans: Black
Germans and the Politics of Race, Gender, and Memory in the Third Reich
(2005).Chebu, Anleitung zum Schwarz
sein (2014).Debrunner,
Presence and Prestige: Africans in Europe. A History of Africans in Europe
before 1918 (1979).Diedrichs
and Heinrichs (eds.), From Black to Schwarz: Cultural Crossovers between
African America and Germany (2011).El-Tayeb,
Schwarze Deutsche. Der Diskurs um “Rasse” und nationale Identität 1890-1933
(2001).Göttsche,
Remembering Africa: The Rediscovery of Colonialism in Contemporary German
Literature (2013).Grimm and Hermand (eds.), Blacks
and German Culture (1986).Heyden and Arnold, Unbekannte
Biographien. Afrikaner im deutschsprachigen Raum vom 18. Jahrhundert bis zum
20. Jahrhundert (2008).Hine, Keaton, and Small (eds.), Black
Europe and the African Diaspora (2009).Höpp (ed.), Fremde Erfahrungen.
Asiaten und Afrikaner in Deutschland, Österreich und in der Schweiz bis 1945
(1996)Hondius,
Blackness in Western Europe: Racial Patterns of Paternalism and Exclusion
(2014).Honeck, et al. (eds.), Germany
and the Black Diaspora: Points of Contact, 1250-1914 (2013).Jensen (ed.), Africans in Europe: A Bibliography
(2002).Lindfors
(ed.), Africans on Stage: Studies in Ethnological Show Business (1999).MacMaster, Racism in Europe,
1870-2000 (2001).Martin, Schwarze Teufel, edle
Mohren. Afrikaner in Geschichte und Bewußtsein der Deutschen
(2001).Martone (ed.), Encyclopedia of
Blacks in European History and Culture (2009).Mazon and Steingröver
(eds.), Not So Plain as Black and White: Afro-German Culture and History,
1890-2000 (2005).Opitz,
et al. (eds.), Farbe bekennen. Afro-deutsche Frauen auf der Spur ihrerer
Geschichte (1986).Paul, Kulturkontakt und Racial
Presences: Afroamerikaner und die deutsche Amerika-Literatur, 1815-1914
(2005).Pieterse, White on Black:
Images of Africa and Blacks in Western Popular Culture (1995).Raphael-Hernandez (ed.), Blackening
Europe: The African-American Presence (2003).Rosenhaft and Aitken (eds.), Africa
in Europe: Studies in Transnational Practice in the Long Twentieth Century
(2013).Rosenhaft and Aitken, Black
Germany: The Making and Unmaking of a Diaspora Community, 1884-1960 (2013).Sollors (ed.), An Anthology of
Interracial Literature: Black-White Contacts in the Old World and the New
(2004).Sow, Deutschland Schwarz
Weiss. Der alltägliche Rassismus (2009).Wright, Becoming Black:
Creating Identity in the African Diaspora (2003). Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 postgraduate creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 1Tutor: Dr Annie RingTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. Moodle to be used as a repository for reading and viewing materials.Formative assessment: formatively-assessed presentations followed by attendance at at least
one office hour in the term, at which students will receive feedback on their
presentation and on a bullet point essay plan.UG Assessment: One 5,000-word essay (100%)PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%)Module Description:In this module we will explore the problem and the promise of surveillance in German-language culture in the twentieth and twenty-first centuries.* Students will encounter crucial and often opposing theories of the forms surveillance can take, and test the applicability of those theories to the changing representations of surveillance in primary works in German. The theoretical approaches and primary works handled in the module will give a grounding in the contributions that German-language culture has made to discussions of how surveillance forms behaviour, as we consider the narratives and images that have emerged in the light of–and as responses to–surveillance.*MA candidates are welcome to draw on German-language works
published before 1900 in their research essays, subject to tutor’s advice. Preparatory reading
and set texts: Simone Browne, Dark Matters: On the Surveillance of
Blackness (Duke University Press, 2015) Gilles Deleuze, ‘Postscript on the Societies of Control’,
various editions. Franz Kafka, Der Proceß, various editions. Harun Farocki, dir. Bilder der Welt und Inschrift des
Krieges (Germany, 1989) Michel Foucault, Discipline and Punish: The Birth of the
Prison (London: Penguin, 1991) Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck, dir. Das Leben der Anderen
(Germany, 2006) Christian Petzold, dir. Barbara (Germany, 2012) Ilija Trojanow & Juli Zeh, Angriff auf die Freiheit:
Sicherheitswahn, Überwachungsstaat und der Abbau bürgerlicher Rechte (Munich:
Hanser, 2009) Cornelia Vissmann, Akten: Medientechnik und Recht (Frankfurt
a/M: Fischer 2000) Set texts for weekly
seminars – see Moodle.  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 2 
Tutor: Dr Annie RingTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. Moodle to be used as a repository for
reading and viewing materials Formative assessment: formatively-assessed
presentations followed by attendance at at least one office hour in the term,
at which students will receive feedback on their presentation and on a bullet
point essay plan.UG Assessment: One 5,000-word essay (100%).PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%)   Module Description:   In this module we will
critically explore the notion of empathy in works of modern German-language
culture and thought. For Hannah Arendt, isolation is a condition in which
totalitarianism can easily take hold. An emotion that can reduce isolation is
empathy. Yet despite its potential for connection and understanding, empathy is
much harder to inspire than hatred toward the other, as certain key events in
modern German history suggest. Can cultural texts incite empathy, and is it
desirable for them to do so? What are the risks attendant on the empathic draw
of texts and philosophies? Students taking the module will develop the skills
to analyse and evaluate a range of texts, including films, which seek to incite
empathy or a critique of empathy in their audiences.   Preparatory reading and set texts: Arendt, Hannah, ‘Ideology and
Terror: A Novel Form of Government’, in The Origins of Totalitarianism (1951),
multiple editions. Breithaupt, Fritz, Die dunklen
Seiten der Empathie (Frankfurt a.M.: Suhrkamp, 2017) Farocki, Harun, dir., NICHT
löschbares Feuer (FRG, 1969) Feldmann,
Maximilian and Luise Schröder (dir.), Valentina (Germany and Macedonia, 2016) Heidegger, Martin, ‘Das
In-der-Welt-sein als Mit- und Selbstsein. Das »Man«’ in Sein und Zeit (1927),
multiple editions. Von Trotta, Margarethe (dir.) Die bleierne Zeit (FRG, 1981) Set texts for weekly seminars – see Module page on UCL MoodlePlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course units / 15 ECTS Level: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 300Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2 Tutors: variousTeaching structure: Students will attend a total of 3 hours per week.Module Description:This is a mandatory module for all students who are studying Italian in any Modern Languages and Modern Languages Plus combination, as well as for Italian BA students. The module presupposes successful completion of ITAL2020 Second Year Italian Language and of the Year Abroad Programme.  The aims of the module are: to develop a high level of knowledge of Italian as a medium of understanding, communication and expression; to develop the understanding of the structure of Italian and of the historical and sociocultural contexts in which it has developed and it is used; and to study Italian as a gateway to other areas and subjects (literature, history, philosophy etc) and possibly further study at postgraduate level. Please note that a thorough knowledge of basic Italian grammar is a prerequisite for this course.Assessment: 1. One unseen 3-hour written examination (75%). The three questions of the written paper are:2. One oral examination (25%). ESPS students who are registered for ITAL4002 Final Year Italian Language for ESPS students (0.5cu) will do a one-hour written exam consisting of an essay (50%) and an oral exam (50%).Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Essay/Oral/GrammarPlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 2
 
 Tutor: Professor John 
DickieTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. UG Assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (100%).PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%)Module Description:The module’s central themes are national identity and
nation-building in Italy
between Unification and the First World War. The first seminars are taken up by
a theoretical and historical discussion of nations and nationalism, and by
preparatory study of the state of Italian society in 1860. The main body of the module comprises topics that may include the following: education and children’s
literature; crime and criminal anthropology; political culture; feminism;
opera; patriotic monuments; Italian cuisine; Futurism; the South; the
Giolittian state. A representative work is studied for each topic, along with a
wide range of historical and theoretical material. Students are therefore
expected to know the set works in detail, to engage with new theoretical
concepts, and to develop a good understanding of the central questions related
to the issue of national identity in Liberal Italy.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Lisa Sampson Teaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. UG Assessment: one written commentary of
2000 words (40%), and an assessed essay of 3000 words (60%) PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%) Module Description:This
module explores perceptions of identity in Renaissance Italy, bringing recent
perspectives to the compelling thesis of Renaissance man’s individuality in
Burkhardt’s foundational The Civilization
of the Renaissance in Italy (1860). The focus is especially on how identity
could be construed, or socially, politically, and culturally constructed, by
individuals or groups, through theatre and the rich culture of the princely
courts. We will examine Castiglione’s Il
cortegiano (1528), which provides a subtle portrait of the court of Urbino
and of the multifarious roles played by the ideal courtier. Theatrical works by
Bibbiena, Ariosto and comici dell’arte will provide a further basis
for exploring the complex dynamics involved in ‘self-fashioning’, from dress
and leisure pursuits to more challenging issues of imitation and dissimulation.
Students will explore the aesthetics and ethics of performance, debates on
nobility, linguistic issues, class and political identity, gender play, and
also attitudes to sociability and humour. 
The study of theatrical texts will allow students opportunities to
engage practically in class with issues of performance.  A theatre visit will be programmed depending
on availability.Set
texts· Baldassarre Castiglione, Il cortegiano (any edition)· Bibbiena (Bernardo Dovizi), La Calandria (1513) (any edition) · Ludovico Ariosto, La Lena (1528) (any edition)· Flaminio Scala, Il teatro delle favole rappresentative [1611], ed. by Ferruccio
Marotti (Milano: Il polifilo, 1976) (selected commedia dell’arte scenarios) [See
The Commedia dell'arte of Flaminio Scala:
a translation and analysis of 30 scenarios, ed. and transl. by Richard
Andrews (Lanham, Md.: Scarecrow Press, 2008)]Preparatory background reading· Cox, Virginia, A Short History of The Italian Renaissance (London: I.B. Tauris,
2016), ch. 4 ‘Identity and the Self’, ch. 5 ‘Renaissance Man’· Martin, John Jeffries, Myths of Renaissance Individualism (Basingstoke: Palgrave
MacMillan, 2004)· Woodhouse, J. R., Baldesar Castiglione.
A Reassessment of the Courtier (Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press,
1978)· Anglo, Sydney, ‘The Courtier: The
Renaissance and Changing Ideals’, in The
Courts of Europe: Politics, Patronage and Royalty,
1400-1800, ed. A. G. Dickens (London, 1977) · Andrews, Richard, Scripts and Scenarios: the performance of comedy in Renaissance Italy
(Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1993)· Farrell, Joseph, and Paolo Puppa, eds, A History of Italian Theatre (Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 2006), Part II ‘The Renaissance’ Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Enrico 
PalandriTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. UG Assessment: One 5,000-word essay (100%)PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%)Module Description: Since the middle of 
the twentieth century the Italian novel has undergone profound transformations. 
Each generation of writers tends to take certain themes as its own and to 
establish stylistic trends: neorealism, experimentalism, new narrativity, ‘I 
cannibali’. Within each generation important alliances are formed with 
publishing houses and newspapers, new literary magazines are founded, the map of 
Italian society is redrawn. These groupings tend to be abandoned once individual 
careers have been established. Each new generation of writers unfailingly 
accused the older one of provincialism, of being too tied to the national 
tradition. Occasionally, however, unexpected alliances appeared between young 
writers and others fifty years older ‘I nuovi narratori’ and Morante, Moravia, 
Bilenchi; ‘I cannibali’ and ‘Gruppo 63’. The module will examine these changes 
in relation both to generational differences and to the individual careers of 
the authors themselves.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Novels from the bulk of the bibliography. However, some texts are 
offered as historical and theoretical support. The following is a small 
selection of the novels referred to in the lectures. Students are welcome to 
propose other texts by the same authors. A longer list of novels and other works 
will be supplied to students taking the module. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1  Tutor: Dr Eleanor ChiariAssessment: two 
assessed 3000 word essays (50% each), one in-class presentation.Module Description:This module aims to 
provide an extensive introduction to themes related to the study of memory, 
memories and history with reference to twentieth-century Italy. Drawing on 
recent discussion in history and anthropology, the module begins with a study of 
methodology before moving on to more specific case studies in various periods of 
Italian history.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Carlotta Ferrara degli UbertiTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. UG Assessment: One 3000 word essay (50%) and one desk examination (50%)PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%) Module Description:The concept, size and functions of the European family have changed
during the XIX and XX century, in relation to the rapid mutations in political,
social and economic structures. But they have also been influenced by the
process of secularization, the evolution of medical science, then the
dissemination of valid methods of contraception. The module will focus on the evolution
of conceptions, representations and practices of marriage in Italy from a
legal, political and cultural perspective. The debate on the possibility of
introducing divorce in the Italian legal system will be followed from the
Unification until the referendum of 1974. Topics will include: representations
of the family, evolution of gender roles, representations of women, feminism,
the influence of Catholicism and Catholic parties, propaganda, the changing
attitude toward sexuality. Primary sources such as legal documents, literary
materials, films, documentaries, illustrations will be properly contextualized
and analyzed.  Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS (ITAL6001 or ITAL6004) 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTS  (ITAL6002)Level: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150 (ITAL6001 or ITAL6004) / 300 (ITAL6002)Tutor: Andrew Campbell (essay writing) and others (translation)Available to: Affiliate students who are native speakers of Italian.Teaching structure: Whole Year (ITAL6002) / Term 1 only (ITAL6004) / Term 2 only (ITAL6001).•  Time: Thursday 15.00-16.00 or 16.00-17.00 (essay writing) and Wednesday 13.00 - 14.00
 or Thursday 13.00 - 14.00 (translation from Italian into English
and vice versa).•  Student contact
hours: 20 one-hour classes (10 translation, 10 essay-writing) in each term. Assessment: No
dictionaries or any reference material are allowed in examinations.•  ITAL6001/6004: one two-hour written paper consisting of the following two
questions: Translation into English and Essay
in English•  ITAL6002: one three-hour written paperStudent workload: Regular
written assignments will be set by the module tutors, to be handed in by the
deadlines specified. Work handed in after the deadlines will not normally be
marked. Submission of at least 70% of this coursework is required for admission
to the examination.Module Description:This module gives
students practice of translation from Italian into English and vice versa, and
of essay writing in English.For the translation
classes, Affiliate students are allocated to the Final Year language groups (ITAL4040) to
work on a range of texts. One half of each term is spent working on translation
from English into Italian, the other half on translation from Italian into
English, with different tutors. Students are encouraged to reflect on and
discuss problems inherent in the practice of translation.The
essay-writing classes focus
on the discussion of topics on which the students will write essays. There will
also be scope for discussion of issues generated by the translation classes. Students
will engage with different registers and styles of English texts (such as
journalistic, formal, popular song, academic and poetry) and different varieties
of English (such as regional dialects, slang, and idiomatic phrases). The
module also includes a small component of revision of English grammar, and an
analysis of the skills required to write a short essay in English, such as how
to marshal and present arguments.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0
course units / 15 ECTS Level: Advanced Level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 300Tutor:  Dr Eleanor ChiariTeaching structure:  The dissertation takes the shape of independent
research under the guidance of a supervisor. It is expected that the student
and supervisor will meet 4 times over the course of the project to discuss its
progress.Assessment: One 10,000 words dissertation (100%).Module Description:The purpose of the dissertation is to provide
students with the opportunity to pursue independent and in-depth research on a
subject of choice. It allows students to specialize in an area according to
individual prospective career paths or intellectual interests. The dissertation
demonstrates a student’s ability to produce a substantial piece of written
work, and enhances the skills required to do this: analysis and synthesis,
clarity of thought, conciseness, organization and time management. The topic of
the dissertation must fall within the discipline range of the BA Language and
Culture. It may relate in general terms to the subject area of a module in the
degree but it must not replicate work already done on a particular
module(including Year-Abroad projects). The topic may be cross-disciplinary
and/or multi-lingual in nature, or link two areas for comparison. The topic is
subject to the approval of the Programme Convener who will also assist the student
in finding an appropriate supervisor in one of the departments linked to the
Programme. A dedicated Moodle site will be available for consultation,
containing guidance and relevant general materials.  The module aims: Intended learning
outcomes:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
30
UCL credits / 1.0 course units / 15 ECTS  Level: Advanced level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 300
 Term/s: Full YearTutor: Dr Joana Rita RamalhoTeaching structure: The class meets 4
hours per week in two 2-hour classes. The teaching is divided into four main
components: Oral, Grammar, Translation into Portuguese and
Translation into English. Other skills, such as listening and
reading comprehension and writing skills, are included in each of the four
components.Assessment: Final Desk Exam with components of Grammar, Translation into
Portuguese and Translation into English (50%); Oral Exam (20%); Coursework (30%). The
coursework consists of two grammar quizzes, two oral presentations,
two writing exercises, two translations into Portuguese and two translations
into English. The breakdown for coursework marks is 3% for each
component.Module Description:This module is designed
for students who have had exposure to Intermediate Portuguese (PORT2010) and,
typically, spent several months in Brazil, Portugal or another Lusophone
country on their Year Abroad. Native speakers of Portuguese may be present in the classroom.
The module is aimed at developing speaking, reading, writing and translating
skills in Portuguese to an advanced level of ability and help students gain
further insight into aspects of the culture of Portuguese-speaking
countries. Proficiency in Portuguese is consolidated at Level B2 of the
Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR), with some aspects
of Level C1 also explored. You will expand your vocabulary and learn to use increasingly
complex sentences and structures, as well as idioms, expressions and colloquialisms. Both the Brazilian and European
Portuguese varieties are covered, and aspects of Luso-African and Luso-Asian
culture will be explored. Students are encouraged to establish connections with
the materials studied on final-year PORT content modules. By the end of the module, we expect students
to be fluent in one of the world’s most widely spoken languages, and highly
skilled in translating literary and non-fiction texts in a variety of
registers. Course materials:Your tutor will make use of a combination of online
resources, grammars, textbooks and other materials. The following are the most
important books used on the course: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.  The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 credits Level: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) / 300 (PG)Term/s: Term 2 Tutor: Zoltan BiedermannTeaching structure: lectures including screenings, discussions and
possibly student presentations (3hrs per session)UG assessment: one 2,500 word essay (40%); and one 3,000 word essay (60%)PG assessment: one 6,000 word essay (100%)Module Description:This module explores the colonial and post-colonial cultural
production of the Lusophone world in the 20th and 21st
centuries. The first third of the course engages with Portugal, its empire
under the Salazar regime, and how it appropriated the Luso-tropicalist theories
of the Brazilian sociologist and historian Gilberto Freyre. We will learn about
the regime’s scramble for Africa, its management of internal dissent and
migration, its position with regard to World War II, and its adoption of
Lusotropicalism as a state ideology for the shaping of a Lusophone Atlantic
world. We then move to the different ways in which African intellectuals
responded through adoption, adaptation or outward rejection, leading up to the
idea of an armed struggle for independence. The final third of the course
explores the memory of Empire in post-1974 Portugal and its former colonies. We
will discuss the problem of those who returned from Africa and those who
stayed, the ways in which the memory of the colonial wars made its way (or not)
into Lusophone literary and film cultures, and the recent development of
South-South connections that bypass Portugal and (re)connect Africa directly
with Brazil. Along the way, we will watch and discuss a number of films, read
some wonderful books, and – time permitting – explore the current boom of
post-colonial artwork dealing with the trauma of colonial war.This module is taught in English, but a good level of Portuguese is
key for an understanding of many of the materials.  Preparatory viewings: (if you wish to start thinking about the topic):Preparatory Reading and Primary Texts: The full syllabus, including references and links to many more texts
and visual materials, will be available on Moodle. Students are encouraged to
watch the online materials and, once they have an idea of where their interests
are, purchase some of the primary literature. The most relevant secondary
materials will be made available online and in the library. Please contact the
tutor with any questions before you purchase materials.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 credits Level: Advanced Level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG) Term/s: Term 2Tutor: Ana Cláudia Suriani da SilvaUG Assessment: one 2500 word essay (50%); and one 3500 word
portfolio (50%) consisting of a long translation and commentary of a short
story, and a commentary of a group of crônicas.PG Assessment: 1x 6000 word essay (100%).Module
Description:This module provides an opportunity to
develop knowledge of the Brazilian crônica and short story as short
narrative genres, based on certain principals of composition and historical
reception. It will explore key concepts of narrative theory and the
relationship between literature and journalism. A chronological overview of the
short story and crônica will be provided with a focus on the most
prominent Brazilian cronistas and short story writers from the 1870’s to
the present. The module will offer a historical and literary framework for the
critical exploration of the set texts, as it aims to trace the development of
short fiction considering its relationship to major themes, events in
post-colonial Brazilian history.This module emphasises a research-based
approach to teaching and learning, by requiring students to consult and
critically engage with a diverse range of primary sources (newspapers,
magazines, first editions, anthologies, online editions), and by developing
translation skills of specific texts, as part of their
assessment. Students will be encouraged to find their own primary materials of
choice to write their essays. It will be taught in weekly sessions, which will combine a one-hour
lecture in Portuguese and a one-hour seminar in English or Portuguese. Lectures
will engage with a particular author, topic, theoretical issue or historical
moment and introduce the framework for the seminar discussion. Seminars will
consist of close reading of set texts, small group activities, and
workshops. Aims of the module:You may start reading
the primary texts for this course before classes begin. Preparatory
Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.  The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Full YearTutor: Dr Anne Grydehøj Teaching structure: One weekly 2-hour
seminar consisting of discussion and student presentations. Moodle to be used as a repository for
reading materials as well as for preparatory assignments and forum discussions. Assessment: one unseen
three-hour written examination (50%); one oral examination (30%); and
coursework (20%).Module Description:The module aims to: build on
and improve students’ existing language skills, taking students up to a level
of near-native proficiency in all four language skills: speaking, understanding,
writing and reading; enable the students to express themselves in clear,
concise, coherent, fluent, and linguistically and grammatically correct Danish.A high level of student
autonomy will be expected, and the module will to a large extent consist of
students’ own work. Weekly assignments to be completed at home will be given
and the feedback to these will constitute an essential part of the work of perfecting
students’ language competence.Preparatory Reading and Set
Texts:Texts: No textbook is required
for the module; instead, a variety of authentic materials will be used. Grammar: It is recommended
that students own a copy of R Allan, P Holmes & T Lundskær-Nielsen, Danish.
An Essential grammar (Routledge 2000). Dictionaries: It is recommended that students own a Danish dictionary
such as Politiken's Nudansk Ordbog. Students will occasionally need to
consult H Vinterberg & C A Bodelsen, Dansk-engelsk ordbog
(Gyldendal) and B Kjærulf Nielsen, Engelsk-dansk ordbog (Gyldendal),
which can be found in the library.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Full YearTutor: Ms Annika LindskogAssessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (50%); one oral examination (30%); and coursework (20%). Module Description: Aim: To perfect language skills in
spoken and written Swedish, building on previous experience.  Method: A lively approach to the language
using all available methods and developing a range of skills: speaking, reading, comprehension,
translation, essay writing, etc.  Classwork: discussion and talks by students on topics of
current or perennial interest, translation with emphasis on register,
grammatical analysis and advanced vocabulary work.  Private
study: Apart from
essays, translations and other preparations for class, the students are
encouraged to take their own initiative in reading Swedish newspapers,
magazines, listening to the Swedish radio and watching Swedish TV, visiting the
Swedish Church, attending films and other
cultural events. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Full YearTutor: Dr Elettra CarboneAssessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (50%); one oral examination (30%); and coursework (20%).Module Description:The aim of this module is to develop skills in the reading and comprehension of mainly bokmål to near native proficiency. During the module the students will be exposed to different types of original fictional and non-fictional texts and materials, including articles, literary texts, TV debates, films, and speeches. Students will reflect on the differences and similarities between different genres and will gradually be able to imitate different styles and registers.  Oral proficiency will be developed via individual
presentations and class discussions of topics dealing with
contemporary Norwegian issues and other issues of interest to members
of the group.  Student participation is essential.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Textbook There will be no textbook. Instead, there will be a variety of material used, including newspaper and
magazine articles, passages from novels and short stories, previous
exam papers and Norwegian films. Dictionaries All students must own a good
Norwegian-English and English-Norwegian dictionary. One of the
dictionaries must indicate the gender of Norwegian nouns. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Full YearTutor: To be confirmed (Danish), Elettra Carbone (Norwegian) & Annika Lindskog (Swedish)Teaching structure: The module structure incorporates independent reading,
one-to-one discussions with the tutor about the material and oral
presentations with the whole class, written exercises in the form of
the portfolio tasks, and a final essay at the end of the project. The
final essay is expected to show substantial knowledge and understanding
of the topic, as well as an advanced level of communicative and
expressive language skills. Assessment: portfolio work (100%). Module Description:The module aims to expand the vocabulary, oral skills and
written skills of students who already have a high level of fluency and
proficiency in their chosen language. It is designed to challenge all
students at their individual level and give them the maximum
opportunity to develop their own strengths within the framework of the module, while at the same time give the students the opportunity to
undertake a longer and more in-depth study of a specific topic that
relates to their main language.  The module comprises of individual language work on a
topic set by the module tutor each year. The primary skills to be
practised are reading, oral ability, and writing. The outcome of the module will be a portfolio of written work (3 pieces with a combined
length of min.1500 words, and 1 longer piece of about 1500-2000 words)
and one or more oral presentation/s throughout the module  Topics can include, but are not limited to, modern
literature, current social issues, cultural reviews, or a philosophical
or academic debate, and should be chosen with the abilities and talents
of the class and the individual students in mind. As a guide, a minimum
of the equivalent of five book-length texts should be read as basis for
the project. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Full YearTutor: Various (module tutor: Dr Jakob Stougaard-Nielsen
in term 1; Dr
Claire Thomson in term
2)  Teaching structure: 1-hour seminar per week, both teaching terms
Co-taught
and timetabled with:
SCANG001 Advanced Scandinavian Translation
 
Assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (60%); and three
written coursework/problem papers (40%). Module
Description: A
distinctive advantage of learning a Scandinavian language is the ability to
translate into English from all three (Danish, Norwegian, Swedish). This module
is designed to (a) provide practice in translation from the three languages,
(b) identify strategies for using knowledge of one Scandinavian language to
develop comprehension of the two, and (c) introduce translation theory and
apply it to practical translation tasks. The module is timetabled for one hour
per week throughout the academic year, in order to provide ample time to
develop skills. The first five weeks focus on translation theory, using a range
of authentic translations to identify approaches most relevant in the
Scandinavian context. Thereafter, classes cover a range of text-types and
genres across the three languages, organised in three language-specific blocs
of five weeks each. The module is team-taught by language specialists and with
occasional guest appearances from practising Scandinavian-English translators.
Students will be able to attend events relating to translation throughout the
year, including one or more briefing sessions on translation careers and
technological tools for translators.Preparatory Reading and Set
Texts: Mona
Baker, In Other Words: A
Coursebook on Translation,
London: Routledge, 2011. Lawrence
Venuti (ed.), The
Translation Studies Reader (Third
Edition), London: Routledge, 2012.
 
  You
should also familiarise yourself with UCL Library's Translation Studies resources
here: http://www.ucl.ac.uk/library/subject-support/guides/translation-studies Please
note that this module is assessed
by both coursework and examination. In order to allow students full coverage of
the module, the deadline for submission of the coursework is the beginning of
Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time to receive
feedback on the essay before the examination.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 300Term: Full YearConvenor: Dr Mart KuldkeppAssessment: 10,000 word essay (100%)
Available to:
final year undergraduate studentsModule
Description:The
dissertation is a compulsory element of the Scandinavian Studies degree. It is
an original academic work on a topic completely of your choosing. You can write
on any topic you like (so long as a staff member is willing to supervise it)
but are encouraged to write on a topic relating to your specialism (the
language, literature, culture, history etc. of the Scandinavian country you
have focused on during your studies).Students
decide on a topic and find a supervisor by the end of the first term of their
final year. They then research their project over the remaining part of their
final year and submit their dissertation as per deadline.Writing a
dissertation gives you an opportunity to pursue a topic of interest to you in
depth; to produce work that is based on original research; and to develop your
research techniques and skills in academic writing. It can be one of the most
satisfying parts of the degree and you can use it to draw together knowledge
you have acquired over the course of your studies. A successful dissertation
may well form the starting point for further, more independent work at the
postgraduate level, and it will be seen as an important indicator of an
aptitude for research.Important: cannot be taken in
conjunction with SCAN7203. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSPG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Helga LuthersdottirTeaching structure: 2-hour weekly seminar taught in English (joint with SCANG014), consisting of lectures, class discussions and student presentations.Moodle to be used as a repository for reading materials as well as forpreparatory assignments and forum discussions. This module is available to both Final 
Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: One coursework essay of 4,000 words (100%).PG Assessment: One coursework essay of 4,000 words (100%).Module Description:The module works with the idea of “crime literature” as a mode of reading rather than as a specific literary genre. The focus is on the effects of crime on small communities as presented in Icelandic and other Nordic literature predominately from the modern period, including Nordic noir. All assigned readings are in English, although students are welcome to read the texts in the source languages. No prior knowledge of Nordic languages or literature is required.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Because SCAN4204- Modern Icelandic Literature: Special Topics is a special topics module, primary 
readings, as well as topic-specific secondary readings reflect the 
specific topic to be offered and will be selected by tutor each time the module is offered. The lists below are specifically designed for the 
Special Topic: Crime in Small Numbers, to be taught in academic year 
2013-14. All readings are in English although students are welcome to 
read the texts in the source language.Primary Readings:Films: Secondary
Readings: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
PG Value: 30 credits Level: Advanced LevelTotal Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 1Tutor: Dr Erin GoeresTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. UG Assessment: one unseen three-hours written examination (70%) and one 2500-word essay (30%)PG Assessment: One 3,000-word essay (50%) and one three-hours written examination(50%)Module Description:This module forms the logical continuation of Intermediate Old Norse and will combine advanced translation with the in-depth analysis of four set
texts. The first term will focus on Egils
saga and its place within the wider context of the Íslendingasögur, konungasögur
and skáldasögur. The second term will
focus on the poems Eiríksmál and Hákonarmál, as well as the
‘Conversion Verses’ of Hallfreðr vandræðaskáld, set within the context of
Scandinavia’s conversion to Christianity.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: Reading lists will be provided for the
individual texts, but students are strongly advised to read the entirety of Egils saga in translation (available in
Penguin Classics, The Complete Sagas of
Icelanders or similar) before the start of term. The primary text that will be used for translation
will be Bjarni Einarsson’s edition, Egils
saga (London, 2003),  Students may also find it useful to read
any of the Sagas of Warrior-Poets,
ed. Diana Whaley (London, 2002), especially Hallfreðar
saga. Photocopies of the other set
texts will be provided. A useful introduction to Egils saga may be found in any of the following: Useful reference works: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1Tutor: Dr Haki AntonssonTeaching structure: The module will be taught
through a combination of lectures and seminars that will alternative between close
scrutiny of original sources and discussion of wider historical themes.Assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (70%); and one essay (30%).Module Description:The module will focus on
the impact the Vikings had on European society ca. 800-1050. Additionally, the emergence of “new
societies” as a result of Viking exploration in the North
 Atlantic will be examined. Geographically the module will include
Continental Europe, the Insular world, the North Atlantic colonies and Russia.
Particular emphasis will be placed on a close examination of the various
source-categories relevant to the study of the Vikings in Europe.
These sources were produced both from within and outside Scandinavia
and include, inter alia, written
sources, archaeological evidence, numismatics and place-names.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 0.5 course unitTutor: Dr Annika LindskogAssessment: 1 essay of 1,500 words (30%); 1 project of 3,000 words (70%).Module Description:What is a Nordic landscape? How have conceptions of landscape been
perceived, represented, modified and moderated in the Nordic region?
What is the function of landscape today, and how has the traditions of
landscape and landscape perception influenced life in the Nordic
region? This module takes as its starting point that any landscape
never just is, but is continuously appropriated by
inhabitants and observers though art, literature, film, and music, as
well as through activities such as tourism and policy making. Looking
at examples of landscape from historical through to urban landscapes
and the built environment, from the romantic and national landscape
through to today’s environmental and global awareness, and making use
of a wide variety of possible texts – novels and poetry, tourist
brochures and paintings, runestones and films, black metal and
symphonic music, political speeches and travel diaries – the module
aims to consider both the physical space and mental concepts of
landscape in the Nordic region, tracing representations of and rhetoric
around landscape across times and regions. We will work with both
theoretical concepts used in landscape theory and cultural geography,
and concrete and local examples through the written, visual, and aural
texts, trying to gain an understanding of not only the different
approaches to the Nordic landscapes that exist and have existed, but
also how these evolved and what impact they have had and still have.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:For further reading and week-by-week set reading, please refer to the module's moodle site.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1Tutor:  Dr Helga LuthersdottirTeaching structure: Assessment: one assessed 4000 word essay (100%).Module Description:Norse myths and medieval sagas have been the
source for “popular” cultural trends since the first nationalistic approach of
the Romantics in 19th century Europe. Today, such Norse-based representations
have established a distinct visual and thematic identity within popular culture
transcending national and cultural boundaries. Through study of the source
myths combined with theoretical analysis of various popular texts such as
fantasy and graphic novels, comic books, film, music, video games and MMORPGs
(massively multiplayer online role-playing games), this module will guide students
to situate these depictions within a larger theoretical framework of Nordic
studies and cultural theory, while simultaneously
enabling them to analyse their own relationship with the various
representations of the “popular Norse”.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Primary TextsFilmsSecondary TextsAdditional texts will be introduced as the module progresses. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Undergraduate
Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 15 ECTSPostgraduate
Value: 30 creditsUG Level: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Mart KuldkeppTeaching structure: this module is available to both Final Year students and MA students.
All students attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional
tutorial hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. Assessment for SCAN7310:
one unseen two-hour written examination (60%); and one 2500
word essay (40%).Assessment for SCANG017: one assessed 6000 word essay (100%).Available to: Final Year undergraduate students, MA students and affiliatesModule
Description:The Nordic
countries have often been regarded as ‘model’ societies, famous for their high
levels of economic prosperity, social equality and political stability. We will
discuss the historical roots of this distinctive ‘Nordic’ experience and how it
has changed since the end of the Cold War, as the Nordic countries have needed
to adopt to new regional, Europe-wide and global developments. This historical
introduction will be followed by a thematic examination of contemporary Nordic
societies in a comparative perspective, looking at the varied legacies of the
‘Nordic model’. Topics to be covered include Nordic foreign and security
policy, domestic politics and the rise of the populist right, immigration and
integration, crime and justice, gender equality, environmentalism and Nordic
co-operation. It should be noted that a focus on the Nordic countries will also
provide a new perspective on some of the most important developments affecting
the whole of Europe over the last 25 years. Preparatory reading and
set texts: There
are no set texts.  A full reading list will be provided at the start of
the course.Mary
Hilson, The Nordic Model:
Scandinavia since 1945 (London: Reaktion, 2008).David Arter,
Scandinavian Politics Today (Manchester:
Manchester University Press. Third edition).Eric S
Einhorn and John Logue, Modern
Welfare States: Scandinavian Politics and Policy in the Global Era (Westport,
Connecticut, 2003).Knud V
Jespersen, A History of
Denmark, translated Ivan Hill (Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan, 2004). David
Kirby, A Concise History of
Finland (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2006).Jason Lavery,
The History of Finland
(Westport, Conn.: Greenwood Press, 2006).Osmo
Jussila, Seppo Hentilä and Jukka Nevakiri, From
Grand Duchy to Nation State: A political history of Finland since 1809, translated
David and Eva-Kaisa Arter (London:
Hurst & Co, 1999).Gunnar
Karlsson, Iceland's 1100
years : the history of a marginal society (London: Hurst, 1999).Rolf
Danielsen et al., Norway: A History from the Vikings to Our Own Times, translated by Michael Drake (Oslo: Scandinavian
University Press , 1995).Byron J
Nordstrom, The history of
Sweden (Westport, Conn.: Greenwood Press, 2002).Neil Kent,
A Concise History of Sweden (Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 2008).
 
 Notes: This Term 2 module is assessed by both essay and
examination. In order to allow students full coverage of the module, the
deadline for submission of the essay is the beginning of Term 3. In practice,
this will leave no or, at best, limited time to receive feedback on the essay
before the examination.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 300Term: Full YearTutor: Dr Haki AntonssonTeaching structure: The module will be taught through a combination of lectures and seminars.This module is also available as two one-term options, respectively: SCAN7405A - 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS (Term 1)SCAN7405B - 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS (Term 2)Assessment: SCAN 7405 is assessed by one unseen three-hour written examination (50%); and two 2,500 word essays (25% each).Parts A and B are each assessed by 2 essays each of 2500 words (50% each)Module Description:The module will examine society and culture in Scandinavia in the period ca. 800-1100. Geographically the module will encompass Sweden, Denmark Norway, and the Norse colonies in the North Atlantic (the Faroes, Iceland, and Greenland). In the case of Iceland the time-span will extend to the end of the Commonwealth period (ca. 1262). The principal themes that the module will cover include: the causes of the Viking Age; the development and emergence of the three Scandinavian kingdoms; the nature of the pre-Christian religion; the conversion to Christianity; the development of Church organisation; relation with Europe, in particular the Insular world and the beginning of written culture. Particular emphasis will be placed on presenting and analysing the various source-categories relevant to Viking-Age Scandinavia. These include, for example, runic inscriptions, place-names, archaeological evidence and saga literature.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Claire ThomsonTeaching structure: Runs in term 2 2017-18.
Consists of weekly screening plus weekly 2-hour seminarAssessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay (30%); and one assessed 4,000 word project (70%)Module Description:This unit has two main objectives: (a) to enable students to develop the skills to analyse films as
texts in their cultural and historical contexts, and (b) to provide an overview
of the development and range of Nordic film as art and industry, within the
broader context of European film history. The module is structured into three blocks, respectively covering early and silent cinema in Denmark, Norway and Sweden; three Nordic auteurs, Dreyer, Bergman and Kaurismäki; and the notion of contemporary 'small-nation cinema', covering Icelandic film, Dogme 95, intercultural cinema and transnational co-production. In 2015-16 the module runs in term 1, and consists of a weekly two-hour (approx) film screening with introduction, followed the next day by a two-hour seminar.  Students are expected to undertake
preparatory reading for lectures and seminars, to attend all
screenings and seminars, and
to watch additional films as necessary. A detailed course outline and week-by-week reading is available on the
module moodle site (UCL user id and login required).The first essay tests students' grasp of film analysis and their ability to apply it to particular films. The second piece of assessment is a project which is independently designed and researched by the student on a topic of his/her choice, under the guidance of the module tutor. Former students of the module have been able to publish outstanding project work under the auspices of the Norvik Press student writings series - see Framed Horizons below.No knowledge of a Scandinavian language is required as all films are subtitled (though a reading ability in a Scandinavian language does give access to a broader range of primary and secondary materials). Students from outside Scandinavian Studies are welcome to enrol, subject to available space.Key texts:   A
week-by-week reading list is provided at the start of the module. Students are
not expected to buy or read all of the texts below in advance; this list is
indicative only. • Marita Fraser, Melissa Powell, Rose-Anne Ross, Anna V.
Strauss, C. Claire Thomson (eds), Framed Horizons: Student Writing on Nordic Cinema, London: Norvik Press, 2012. • Susan Hayward, Cinema Studies. The Key Concepts (London, Routledge, 2001) and/or another
introduction to film studies. • Mette Hjort, Small Nation, Global Cinema: The New Danish Cinema, Minneapolis: University of Minnesota
Press, 2005.
 
  • Mette Hjort and Ursula Lindqvist (eds), A Companion to Nordic Cinema, Chichester, West Sussex; Malden, MA: John
Wiley & Sons Inc., 2016. [Available full-text via UCL Library]
 
  • Mariah Larsson and Anders Marklund (eds): Swedish Film: An Introduction
and Reader, Lund:
Nordic Academic Press, 2010. • Andrew Nestingen and Trevor Elkington (eds), Transnational Cinema in a
Global North: Nordic Cinema in Transition, Detroit: Wayne State University Press,
2005. • Eva Novrup Redvall, Writing and Producing Television Drama in Denmark: From The
Kingdom to The Killing (Palgrave Studies in Screenwriting), Basingstoke: Palgrave,
2013. • Tytti Soila, Astrid Söderbergh-Widding and Gunnar Iversen, Nordic National Cinemas, London: Routledge, 1998. • John Sundholm et al. (eds), Historical Dictionary of Scandinavian Cinema, Plymouth: Scarecrow Press, 2012. (spot
the deliberate mistake on the cover on Amazon!) • C. Claire Thomson (ed.), Northern Constellations: New Readings in Nordic Cinema, Norwich, Norvik Press, 2006. • Journal
of Scandinavian Cinema  • Resources provided by the Nordic Film Institutes are plentiful
and include downloadable magazines and sub-sites on major filmmakers (there is
an English-language version of all these sites): Danish Film Institute, Icelandic Film
Centre, Finnish Film Foundation, Norwegian Film
Institute, Swedish Film Institute, Carl Th. Dreyer: The Man and his Work, Ingmar Bergman.se Weekly
film screenings (indicative): Afgrunden (The Abyss, dir. Urban Gad, Denmark, 1910) Körkarlen (The Phantom Carriage, dir. Victor Sjöström, Sweden, 1920) Den
hemmelighetsfulle leiligheten
(The Mysterious Apartment, dir. Tancred Ibsen, Norway, 1948) Det
sjunde inseglet (The
Seventh Seal, dir. Ingmar Bergman, Sweden, 1957) Gertrud
(Gertrud, dir. Carl Th. Dreyer,
Denmark, 1966)
 
  Mies
vailla menneisyyttä (The
Man without a Past, dir. Aki Kaurismäki, Finland, 2002)
 
  Börn
náttúrunnar
(Children of Nature, dir. Friðrik Þór Friðriksson, Iceland, 1991)  Festen (The Celebration, dir. Thomas Vinterberg, Denmark, 1998) Zozo
(dir. Josef Fares, Sweden,
2005) Miss
Julie (dir. Liv Ullmann, Norway/Sweden/Ireland,
2014) Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
30
UCL credits / 1.0 course units / 15 ECTS 
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 300
 Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2Tutor: various
Module convenors: Adolfo Sánchez Cuadrado & Marga Navarrete Teaching
structure:Assessment 2017-18:
Final Desk Exam with components of
Grammar, Composition in Spanish, Translation into Spanish and Translation into
English (50%); Oral Exam (20%);
Coursework (30%). The coursework consists of two grammar
quizzes, two oral presentations, two writing exercises in Spanish, two
translations into Spanish, and two translations into English. The
breakdown for coursework marks is 3% for each component.Assessment 2016-17: Module
Description:This is an advanced Spanish language
module designed for finalists, consolidating level C1 and exploring level C2 of
the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR). In the Grammar
and Communicative Skills classes, you will consolidate your skills acquired in
your Year Abroad. You will also improve your language proficiency by carrying
out tasks at C2 level (the highest of CEFR levels). Therefore, you will be
exposed and will have to use increasingly sophisticated language in a wider variety
of contexts and registers. Different varieties
of Spanish will be explored. The Translation classes will consolidate your
translation competences already acquired in the previous years. You will be
encouraged to make connections with your experience in the Year Abroad and
broaden your knowledge of Hispanic culture(s). Set Textbooks*:VV. AA. (2013), Nuevo
Prisma C2. Libro de ejercicios. Madrid: Edinumen. 160 pages. ISBN: 9788498482607. (Please note
that Nuevo Prisma C2 has two components, Libro del alumno and
Libro de ejercicios. Students are only required to buy the Libro
de ejercicios as referenced).VV. AA. (2012), Developing
Writing Skills in Spanish. London and New York: Routledge. 372 pages.
Hardback ISBN: 9780415590822. Paperback ISBN: 9780415590839. [Digital copy
available from UCL library]. *Students are required to get a copy of each book and are expected to bring them to their respective classes.
 
 Reference Grammar
(recommended):VV. AA. (2011, 2013),
A New Reference Grammar of Modern Spanish. 5th Edition. Oxon
y Nueva York: Routledge. 608 pages. ISBN: 9781444137699. [Digital copy
available for temporary download from UCL library, and permanent on-line viewing
from UCL library].VV.AA. (2011), Practising
Spanish Grammar. 3rd Edition. London: Routledge. 248 pages.
ISBN: 978-1444137705 [Digital copy available from UCL library]. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 150  Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Maria Chiara D'ArgenioAssessment: one 3000 word essay (40%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (60%).Module Description:In this module,
we will study a number of avant-garde movements that emerged across Latin
America in the twentieth century. We will examine how these vanguard movements
responded to, and were influenced by, the social and political transformations
of various countries in the region. Through the work of Vicente Huidobro,
Felisberto Hernández, Manuel Maples Arce, Xul Solar, Oliverio Girondo, Nicolás
Guillén and César Vallejo we will explore fundamental notions brought to the
forefront by the vanguard movements, such as the category of the new, the place
and importance of the artists and of art in continuously changing societies,
the concepts of autonomy vs. socially and politically engaged art, and ideas of
‘rehumanization’ of art. We will examine the proposals of the Latin American
avant-garde movements, how they were influenced and articulated, and consider
their legacy in Latin America.This module is taught by lectures
and seminars which will include regular group discussion.Students
should read all the texts listed below and the supplementary readings indicated
by the course tutor before the allocated class.Texts:Introductory bibliography:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG) Term/s: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Humberto Núñez-FaracoTeaching Structure:This module is available to both
 Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG assessment:  one 3000 word essay (40%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (60%)PG assessment: one 6000 word essay (100%)Module Description: This module focuses on the work of Jorge Luis Borges, who is widely
recognized as the most influential writer in modern Spanish American
literature. It seeks to comprehend the
complexity of his work, from the nationalistic aspirations of the 1920s to the
universality of his mature writing.N.B. This module is taught in Spanish language
(seminars will be held in English).Methodology:All classes combine an initial 50-minute lecture followed by a
reading seminar or presentation. There will be a 5-minute pause in-between.
Students are kindly requested to read in advance the corresponding texts for
each week.Class notes will be posted on Moodle after each lecture/seminar. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This
module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may
be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsSPAN4117A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The module takes place at the same time as SPAN4117.Level: Advanced Level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG) Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Alexander SamsonTeaching Structure:This module is available to both
 Final Year students, affiliate students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: One essay (40%) and one two hour examination (60%). 
PG Assessment: One 6,000 word essay.SPAN4117A Assesment: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Module Description:Often described as the best book of all
time, Miguel de Cervantes’s Don Quixote
has also been credited with being the first novel. Cervantes described his
world and the people around him with an exceptional combination of sympathy and
wit. Acutely observed, Cervantes’s fiction is also very funny. Only Shakespeare
is widely attributed with equal brilliance.But while Don Quixote is at the core of this course, we will also read one of his Novelas ejemplares, 'Rinconete
y Cortadillo'.The roots of Cervantes’s genius are his
own experience (he led an accident-ridden but exciting life during which he was
decorated for bravery in battle and imprisoned while working as a taxman) and
his own reading and interest in the theatre (for he was a playwright before he
invented the novel). The course will touch on the chivalric literature parodied
in Don Quixote while also introducing
students to Humour Theory and its relevance to the Cervantine cannon.Please note that students will be
expected to have read at least Part I of Don Quijote de la Mancha by the start of term.Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS   Level: Advanced Level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Joana Rita RamalhoAssessment: one assessed 3,000 word essay (40%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (60%). In the exam, students must answer questions on films not studied for the coursework essay. Module Description: This module examines the
development of Spanish film from the late 1990s onwards focusing on issues
such as gender, migration, genre, the k;influence of Hollywood and the increasing
globalisation of the film industry. Films (subject to availability):Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(SPAN4307A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The module takes place at the same time as SPAN4307.) Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Term 1 Tutor: Professor Stephen HartAssessment: SPAN4307: One 3,000 word coursework essay (40%), and one, two hour exam (60%).
SPAN4307A: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module Description:Cultural Dilemmas II analyses cultural dilemmas in a selection of Latin
American texts and films with particular reference to the avant-garde,
the "Boom" novel  and the
"slick grit" of contemporary Latin American film. Schedule:Week 1: The
avant-garde in Latin AmericaWeek 2: The
avant-garde in Latin AmericaWeek 3: Gabriel
García Márquez, El amor en los tiempos del cólera (1985) (novel)Week 4: Gabriel
García Márquez, El amor en los tiempos del cólera (1985) (novel)Week 5: Alejandro
González Iñárritu, Amores
perros (2000) (film)Week 6: Alejandro
González Iñárritu, Amores
perros (2000) (film)Week 7: Walter
Salles, Diarios de
motocicleta (2004) (film)Week 8: Walter
Salles, Diarios de
motocicleta (2004) (film)Week 9:
Alfonso Cuarón, Gravity (2013)Week 10: Alfonso
Cuarón, Gravity (2013)BIBLIOGRAPHY (important items highlighted with asterisk)Arijon,
Daniel, Grammar of the Film Language
(Los Angeles, CA: Silman-James Press, 1976).Ashcroft,
Bill, Gareth Griffiths and Helen Tiffin (eds), The Post-Colonial Studies Reader (London: Routlege, 1997).Bishop,
Elizabeth, and Emanuel Brasil (eds), An Anthology of Twentieth-Century
Brazilian Poetry (Middleton, CT: Wesleyan University Press, 1972). Brito, Mário da Silva, História do modernismo brasileiro, 2nd
revised ed. (Rio de Janeiro: Editôra Civilizacão Brasileira , 1964).Buckland,
Warren, Film Studies (London: Hodder
and Stoughton, 1998). Burton, Julianne, Cinema
and Social Change in Latin America:
Conversations with Latin American Filmmakers (Austin: University of Texas
Press, 1986).Braudy, Leo,
and Marshall Cohen, Film Theory and
Criticism: Introductory Readings
(Oxford: OUP, 1999). Contemporary Latin American
Cultural Studies, eds Stephen Hart and Richard Young (London:
Arnold, 2003),
pp. 177-89.Coutinho, Afrânio, An Introduction to Literature in Brazil
(New York: Columbia University
Press, 1969).Coutinho, Afrânio (ed.), Enciclopédia da Literatura Brasileira, 2 vols. (São Paolo: Global Editora, 2001).
Dictionary of Twentieth-Century Culture:
Hispanic Culture of South America, ed.
Peter Standish (Detroit, MI: Gale Research Ltd, 1995). During, Simon, The Cultural Studies Reader (London:
Routledge, 1999).*Elena, Alberto, and Marina Díaz López, The Cinema of Latin America (London: Wallflower, 2003). González
Echeverría, Roberto, The Voice of the
Masters: Writing and Authority in Modern Latin American Literature (Austin:
University of Texas Press, 1985).*Hart,
Stephen, Gabriel García Márquez
(London: Reaktion, 2010).*Hart,
Stephen, Latin American Cinema
(London: Reaktion, 2014).*Hart, Stephen M., ‘Latin American
Poetry’, in A Companion to Latin American Literature and Culture, ed.
Sara Castro-Klaren (Oxford: Blackwell, 2008), pp. 426-31.Hart, Stephen
(with Owen Williams), ‘Latin American Cinema’s Trojan Horse’, in A Companion to Latin American Cinema
(Malden, MA: Wiley, 2017), ed. Maria Delgado Stephen M. Hart and Randal
Johnson, pp. 408-29. Hayward,
Susan, Key Concepts in Cinema Studies
(London: Routledge, 1996).Hennebelle, Guy, Les Cinéastes de l’Amérique latine (Paris: Pierre L’herminier,
1981).Hojas
de cine: testimonios y documentos del nuevo cine latinoamericano (Mexico: Fundación Mexicana de Cineastas,
1988), 3 vols. King, John, Magical Reels (London: Verso, 2000), 2nd
ed. Lehman,
Peter, and William Luhr, Thinking About
Movies: Watching, Questioning, Enjoying (Oxford: Blackwell, 2003). Mahieu, José Agustín, Panorama del cine iberoamericano (Madrid: Ediciones de Cultura
Hispánica, 1990).Martin,
Michael T., ed. New Latin American Cinema
(Vol Two: Studies of National Cinemas) (Detroit: Wayne State University
Press, 1997).*Martínez
Martínez, Germán, ‘A Mexican in Hollywood or Hollywood in Mexico: Gobalized
culture and Alfonos Cuarón’s Films’, in A
Companion to Latin American Cinema (Malden, MA: Wiley, 2017), ed. Maria
Delgado Stephen M. Hart and Randal Johnson, pp. 392-407.Mediating Two Worlds: Cinematic Encounters
in the Americas,
ed. John King, Ana M. López and Manuel Alvarado (London: BFI, 1993).*Mendonça Teles, Gilberto, Vanguarda europea e modernismo (São Paolo: Vizes, 1992).Mexican Cinema, edited by Paulo Antonio
Paranaguá (London: BFI, 1992).Miller, Nicola,
and Stephen Hart (eds), When Was Latin America Modern? (New York: Macmillan, 2007). Miller, Toby,
and Robert Stam (eds), A Companion to
Film Theory (Oxford: Blackwell, 1999). Nist, John, The
Modernist Movement in Brazil: A Literary Study (Austin: University of Texas
Press, 1967).Pérez Murillo, María Dolores, and David
Fernández Fernández (eds), La memoria
filmada: América latina a través de su cine (Madrid: IELPA, 2002). Pick, Zuzana
M., The New Latin American Cinema: A
Continental Project (Austin: University of Texas Press, 1993).*Podalsky,
Laura, ‘Affecting Legacies: Historical memory and Contemporary Structures of
Feeling in Madagascar and Amores perros’, Screen, 44.3 (Autumn 2003), 277-94. Rodríguez, Ileana, ‘Postmodern Theory and
Cultural Criticism in Spanish America and Brazil’, in A Companion to Latin
American Literature and Culture, ed. Sara Castro-Klaren (Oxford: Blackwell,
2008), pp. 602-19.*Rosenberg, Fernando J., The
Avant-Garde and Geo-Politics in Latin America (Pittsburgh: University of
Pittsburgh Press, 2006).*Rosenberg, Fernando J., ‘Cultural Theory
and the Avant-Gardes: Mariátegui, Mário de Andrade, Oswald de Andrade, Pagú,
Tarsila do Amaral, César Vallejo’, in A Companion to Latin American
Literature and Culture, ed. Sara Castro-Klaren (Oxford: Blackwell, 2008),
pp. 602-19.Santiago, Silviano, The Space
In-Between: Essays on Latin American Culture (Durham, NC: Duke University
Press, 2001).Schumann, Peter B., Historia del cine latinoamericano (Buenos Aires: Legasa, 1985).*Shaw,
Deborah, Contemporary Cinema of Latin
America: 10 Key Films (London: Continuum, 2003). *Shaw,
Deborah (ed.), Contemporary Latin
American Cinema: Breaking into the Contemporary Market (Lanham: Rowmand
& Littlefield, 2007).Shiel, Mark,
and Tony Fitmaurice, Cinema and the City:
Film and Urban Societies in a Global Context (Oxford: Blackwell, 2001). Shapiro, Theda, Painters and politics : the European avant-garde
and society, 1900-1925 (New
York-Oxford, Elsevier, 1976).Skidmore,
Thomas E., Modern Latin
 America (New York: OUP, 1992).Skidmore, Thomas E., Brazil : five centuries
of change (New York-Oxford : Oxford University Press, 1999).*Smith, Paul Julian, Amores
perros (London: BFI, 2003).Verity (ed.), Encyclopedia of
Latin American Literature (Chicago: Fitzroy-Dearborn, 1997).Spivak, Gayatri, ‘Can the Subaltern Speak?’, in Bill Ashcroft, Gareth
Griffiths and Helen Tiffin (eds), The
Post-Colonial Studies Reader (London: Routledge, 1997), pp. 24-28.Standish,
Peter (ed.), Dictionary of
Twentieth-Century Culture: Hispanic Culture of South
 America (Detroit, MI: Gale Research Ltd, 1995).Swanson,
Philip, The New Novel in Latin America:
Politics and Popular Culture after the Boom (Manchester: Manchester
University Press, 1995). *Swanson,
Philip, The Cambridge Companion to
Gabriel García Márquez (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2010).Verissimo,
Erico, Brazilian Literature: an Outline (New York: Greenwood, 1969).Webber, Andrew, The
European avant-garde 1900-1940 (Cambridge, Mass.: Polity Press, 2004). Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term/s: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Maria Chiara D'ArgenioTeaching Structure:This module is available to both
 Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG assessment: One
3000-word essay (40%) and a two-hour desk exam (60%)PG assessment: One 6000-word essay (100%)Module
Description:This module examines the portrayal of the city in Latin American
culture in a variety of genres (including essays, novels, short stories and
films) and analyses the roles urban spaces have played within perceptions and
projections of individual and national identities in different parts of the
region at different times during the twentieth and twenty-first centuries. Classes will take the form of lectures
followed by seminars involving discussion and close analysis of the primary
texts/films studied.Please note that this Term 2
module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination.Preparatory
Reading and a Selection of Course Texts/Films and supplementary texts:Key Theoretical Readings:Primary Texts:* You should investigate sources for the primary texts as early as possible (some may need to be delivered from the US)* Extensive supplementary reading lists will be provided at the beginning of the coursePlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(SPAN4400A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The module takes place at the same time as SPAN4400.)Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS   Level: Advanced Level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term/s: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Adrian PearceAssessment: SPAN4400: Two 2,000-word essays (each weighted at 50%)SPAN4400A: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). 
Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module description:This module
discusses the history of Latin America during the past two centuries, a period
during which it took on many of the key characteristics which define it today.
Powerful but disfunctional states, and populist, personalist politics; great
wealth contrasting with widespread poverty and social disenfranchisement; sprawling
mega-cities where Spanish is to all intents and purposes the only game in town,
while in some rural regions, millions speak native languages; stark problems of
racism and racial discrimination, within societies that regard themselves as
multi-cultural; and a strong love-hate relationship with the United States, all
these are the product of trends developing across the two hundred years since Independence. The first sessions are devoted
to the nineteenth century, and look at the political and economic aftermath of
Independence and the “Age of Caudillos”, in the period from the 1820s to the
1870s; slavery and abolition in Latin America, and their consequences for
Afro-Latin Americans; the Belle Epoque
(for elites) of the period from the 1870s to 1920s, that left such a striking
architectural legacy in cities such as Buenos Aires; and the ongoing
relationship of Spain with Latin America during the nineteenth century, to the
loss of Cuba and Puerto Rico in 1898.Later sessions are devoted to
the twentieth century, and begin with the mass immigration from Europe that
reshaped the region and many of its countries between the 1870s and the 1930s.
We then look at dominant political forms from the 1930s onwards, as they passed
through populism and authoritarianism, to the military regimes of the 1960s and
1970s. A related class considers the role of revolution in modern Latin
America, from Mexico in 1910 to Cuba in 1959. We then discuss democratisation
and social change in the period from the 1970s through to the 2000s. Two final
sessions consider modern Latin American history from an external perspective
and from a distinctive domestic viewpoint: firstly, through the prism of (often
troubled) relationships with the United States, and secondly of (equally
problematic) relations between indigenous peoples and nation states, with
particular focus on the Andean region. Indicative Bibliography (a full bibliography will be distributed at the start of the course). General historiesBrown, Matthew, From Frontiers to
Football: An Alternative History of Latin America since 1800 (London,
2014).Fowler,
Will, Latin America since 1780 (Modern
History for Modern Languages) 3rd ed. (London, 2015).Holden, Robert, and Rina Villars, Contemporary
Latin America (London, 2012).Primary source collections in EnglishBuffington, Robert, and Lila Caimari (eds.), Keen’s Latin American Civilization: A Primary Source Reader, vol.
2, The Modern Era 10th ed.
(Boulder, COL., 2016).See also the excellent country-specific “Reader” series of collections of
key documents in translation, published by Duke University Press, for which
volumes currently exist for Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Costa Rica, Cuba,
Ecuador, Guatemala, Mexico, Paraguay, and Peru (a volume for Colombia is
forthcoming in December 2016).Selected key studiesAljovín de Losada, Cristóbal, Political
Cultures in the Andes, 1750-1950 (Durham, NC., 2005).Andrews, George Reid, Afro-Latin
America, 1800-2000 (Oxford, 2004).Bauer, Arnold, Goods, Power,
History: Latin America’s Material Culture (Cambridge, 2009).Bethell, Leslie (ed.), The
Cambridge History of Latin America, vol. 9, Brazil Since 1930 (Cambridge, 2008).Bushnell, David, and Neil Macauley, The
Emergence of Latin America in the Nineteenth Century 2nd ed.
(Oxford, 1994).Drake, Paul, Between Tyranny and
Anarchy: A History of Democracy in Latin America, 1800-2006 (Stanford,
2009). Foote, Nicola, and Michael
Goebel (eds.), Immigration and National
Identities in Latin America (Miami, 2014).French, William, and
Katherine Bliss (eds.), Gender, Sexuality and Power in Latin America since
Independence (Lanham, MD.,
2006).Grandin, Greg, The Last Colonial Massacre: Latin America in
the Cold War (Chicago, 2004).Kapcia, Antoni, Cuba in Revolution: A History since the
Fifties (London, 2008).Knight, Alan,
Repensar la Revolución Mexicana 2
vols. (Mexico City, 2013).Levine, Robert, Father of the Poor? Vargas and his Era
(Cambridge, 2008).McPherson, Alan, Intimate Ties, Bitter Struggles: The United
States and Latin America since 1945 (Washington , DC., 2006).Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: (30 postgraduate credits)  Level: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG Term/s: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Gareth WoodTeaching Structure:This module is available to both
 Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG assessment: One 3,000 word coursework essay (50%) and one, two hour exam (50%).PG assessment: One 6,000 word coursework essay (100%). Module Description:This module will examine the changing ways in which the Spanish Civil War and subsequent dictatorship have been represented in the contemporary Spanish novel. Although Spain’s transition from Franco’s thirty-six year dictatorship to democracy has been considered a success-story, underlying tension and resentment between the opposing sides of the country’s political divide remain. A country in which the defeated of the war were treated as second-class citizens and their dead comrades excluded from official commemoration of the victims clearly has some catching up to do when it comes to national reconciliation. Spain's novelists have reflected this situation through their works, questioning the national silence over the uncomfortable past during the transition to democracy and, in more recent times, joining the national debate on how best to acknowledge both sides of the fratricidal conflict.  This half-course unit will take in the period immediately after Franco's death, when writers tried to negotiate their way through the political minefield of discussing the war and dictatorship when the on-going transition made those topics taboo. The novels we shall read and discuss seek to evade or confront these taboos in a variety of genres including the fictional memoir/fantastic novel, social realism, and the trauma narrative.Students who participate in this module will gain an insight into Spain's twentieth century history, the factors that determine its past and present political make-up, and how those have shaped debates that are continuing as we speak.More importantly, they will also read and enjoy six thought-provoking and engaging novels from the last three decades by some of the best writers of that period.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:The primary phase: the Transition to democracy (0.5 CU)Primary textsA secondary bibliography would include: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150  Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Deborah MartinAssessment: one essay (40%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (60%) Module Description:This module will focus on the representation of children in
film, with special attention to the kind of function childhood fulfills in
Latin American cinema. This will allow us to explore thematic questions of
nationhood, politics, gender and sexuality, and the way childhood is used to
envision the past and history, as well as the future and social change. We will
also consider questions specific to cinematic and visual representation, such
as whether and how filmmakers attempt to create a child’s view of the world
through aesthetic means, and ethical questions arising around the
representation of child suffering and death.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:FilmsInitial Secondary BibliographyPlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(SPAN4414A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The module takes place at the same time as SPAN4414.)Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Advanced Level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term/s: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Humberto Núñez-FaracoAssessment: SPAN4414: 3000 word coursework essay (40%), unseen 2 hour desk examination (60%).SPAN4414A: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module Description:The Peruvian writer, folklorist and ethnologist José María Arguedas
(1911-1969) is not only the most prominent representative of the neo-indigenist
literary movement in the Andean region but also one of its most acute
interpreters, particularly with respect to the cultural values and traditions
of the Quechua communities of his native country. This course explores
Arguedas’s vivid representation of the Andean world through a careful reading
of some of his most important literary and ethnological works. From his early
short stories and novels—in which he draws from his own personal experiences
among the Indians of the southern sierra—to his insightful essays on the historical
development of Andean mestizo culture and society, Arguedas captures
the spirit of a people that have endured centuries of oppression and, at the
same time, presents a challenging economic model for its social and political
survival.N.B. This module is taught in Spanish
(seminar discussions are held in English) Methodology: All classes combine an initial 50-minute lecture followed by group
discussion (seminar), with a 5-minute pause in-between. Students are requested to read in advance the corresponding texts for
each seminar and to bring to class their notes from reading.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Historical and anthropological
essays:Narrative:Verse:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term/s: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Tyler FisherTeaching Structure:This module is available to both
 Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG assessment: one 3000-word
coursework essay (40%), and one 3000-word portfolio (60% [comprising the student's
selection of original, revised microcuentos (15%), and reflective commentary
(45%)]).PG assessment: one 4000-word coursework essay (40%), and one 3000-word portfolio.Module Description:This
module examines the
poetics and practice of microcuentos, or short-short stories, in modern
Hispanic literature. It involves literary analysis of particular texts, the
broader study of the genre in context, and the composition of original Spanish
prose. The creative, compositional component will necessarily review and build
on the grammar and vocabulary that students have mastered in their degree
course to this point. While refining their Spanish linguistic skills, students
will have the opportunity to engage with fundamental questions about how
language and narrative work in miniature. The
module tutor convenes and facilitates lectures and seminars. All course
information will be made available via Moodle, as well as many of the primary
texts for lectures and seminars. You may start reading for this module before
classes begin. Key readings are marked with an asterisk in the list of texts.Preparatory
Reading and Set Texts: *Juan
Pedro Aparicio, Luis Mateo Díez, and José María Merino, Palabras en la nieve: Un filandón. *Cuentos breves y extraordinarios, eds.
Jorge Luis Borges and Adolfo Bioy Casares. *Entre ínsulas y penínsulas: haiku narrativo
y otros microcuentos, ed. Tyler Fisher. Augusto
Monterroso, La oveja negra y demás
fábulas.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term/s: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Tyler FisherTeaching Structure:This module is available to both
 Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG assessment: one 3000-word
coursework essay (40%), and one 3000-word portfolio (60% [comprising the student's
selection of original, revised microcuentos (15%), and reflective commentary
(45%)]).PG assessment: one 4000-word coursework essay (40%), and one 3000-word portfolio.Module Description:This
module examines the
poetics and practice of microcuentos, or short-short stories, in modern
Hispanic literature. It involves literary analysis of particular texts, the
broader study of the genre in context, and the composition of original Spanish
prose. The creative, compositional component will necessarily review and build
on the grammar and vocabulary that students have mastered in their degree
course to this point. While refining their Spanish linguistic skills, students
will have the opportunity to engage with fundamental questions about how
language and narrative work in miniature. The
module tutor convenes and facilitates lectures and seminars. All course
information will be made available via Moodle, as well as many of the primary
texts for lectures and seminars. You may start reading for this module before
classes begin. Key readings are marked with an asterisk in the list of texts.Preparatory
Reading and Set Texts: *Juan
Pedro Aparicio, Luis Mateo Díez, and José María Merino, Palabras en la nieve: Un filandón. *Cuentos breves y extraordinarios, eds.
Jorge Luis Borges and Adolfo Bioy Casares. *Entre ínsulas y penínsulas: haiku narrativo
y otros microcuentos, ed. Tyler Fisher. Augusto
Monterroso, La oveja negra y demás
fábulas.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This degree provides the opportunity to specialise in the Danish, Norwegian or Swedish language, and to develop an in-depth appreciation of Scandinavian culture. You will have access to state-of-the-art language teaching facilities and the largest and oldest Scandinavian library in the UK, and will spend a year in a Scandinavian country.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language.Choose from a
range of first-year ELCS modules.  
Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate second-year modules related to your chosen language.Choose from a
range of intermediate ELCS modules.Year ThreeYou spend your
Year Abroad in a country where your target language is spoken. Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics advanced
modules related to your chosen language or including ELCS modules.   For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective Student website.The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications and test providers can be found on our English language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International Education.These entrance requirements refer to the September 2018 intake, and may be subject to revision for 2019. This page will be updated in September 2018 with subject-specific entrance requirements for students planning to commence their degrees in September 2019.Upon graduation you will be fluent in your chosen language and have a reading knowledge of other Scandinavian languages. The historical and literary parts of the degree will develop your cultural awareness. You will be trained in the organisation, presentation and interpretation of complex information, written and oral communication, and independent and group work.Many of our graduates find they are able to use their Scandinavian languages in a variety of contexts, such as working for Scandinavian companies. Recent graduates have also entered translating, publishing and teaching.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme at UCL include:*Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.Your personal statement should reflect your interests and goals, especially with respect to your proposed degree. Some knowledge or experience of Scandinavian culture is expected, as well as an explanation of how this has motivated you to learn more. We do not necessarily require a language at A level or equivalent, but expect you to demonstrate an enthusiasm and aptitude for language learning.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates that your academic ability and motivation make you well suited to our degree and you receive an offer, we shall invite you to a post-offer open day. There, you will be able to experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as your cultural awareness, motivation for study and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.Students who have not decided between Danish, Norwegian or Swedish are encouraged to contact the SELCS Admissions Office. Students who wish to take Icelandic as part of this programme should also contact the SELCS Admissions Office.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				You can study Spanish in SELCS as a single honours degree or in combinaton with another language or subject.This is a single-subject degree.This degree combines two modern languages.This degree combines a modern language and another, non-language subject.Film from the Undergraduate Open Day Spanish taster sessionThe fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				  This four-year programme combines the study of Spanish language and its varieties with modules in the film, literature, history and cultures of Spain and Latin America, from the early modern period to the present day. Year three is spent abroad in a Spanish-speaking country.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of
your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally
valued at 0.5 or 1.0 course units (cu) each, adding up to a total of
4.0 course units  for the year. The range of modules available to
students varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0
cu is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS).ELCS modules are
interdepartmental humanities based modules which complement those
followed in language-specific departments and are open to students
from all SELCS language departments. The range of topics typically
includes literature, film linguistics and history with a
predominantly European focus.Year OneCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
first-year modules related to your chosen language.Choose from a
range of first-year ELCS modules.  
Year TwoCore compulsory
modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics
intermediate second-year modules related to your chosen language.Choose from a
range of intermediate ELCS modules.Year ThreeYou spend your
Year Abroad in a country where your target language is spoken. Year FourCore compulsory
advanced modules in your chosen language.Choose from a
range of cultural, literature, history, film and linguistics advanced
modules related to your chosen language or including ELCS modules.   For entry requirements with international and other UK
qualifications accepted by UCL, please see the entry requirements on the Prospective Student website.The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications and test providers can be found on our English language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International Education.These entrance requirements refer to the September 2018 intake, and may be subject to revision for 2019. This page will be updated in September 2018 with subject-specific entrance requirements for students planning to commence their degrees in September 2019.In addition to your language competence you will develop skills in close and critical reading, research and writing methods, the analysis and communication of complex materials and the ability to organise your time. These skills will be of value in your future employment.Fluency in Spanish opens up exciting career paths around the world. The language is growing and remains a compelling vehicle for literature, culture and business, and is spoken in regions from Patagonia to Alaska.Alternative career pathways include finance, journalism, law, education, commerce, arts administration, the civil service, the media, or translation and interpreting. The pursuit of further study is also an option open to you.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of Spanish and Latin American Studies programmes at UCL include:*Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.We will be looking for a demonstrable interest in literary, historical and cultural studies, and will be curious to know your motivation for applying for this programme. Evidence of extracurricular interest in the culture of Spanish-speaking countries, such as reading books, newspapers and magazines, watching films, or travel to one of these countries, will be looked on favourably.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.Application deadline: 15 January 2018If your application demonstrates your academic ability and motivation make you well-suited to our degree and you receive an offer, we shall invite you to a post-offer open day. There, you will be able to experience the sort of teaching we offer and life in SELCS.Our admissions process aims to assess your linguistic abilities and attainments as well as your cultural awareness, motivation for study and intellectual potential. We may interview candidates by telephone in order to establish a level of language ability.Applicants must have A level or equivalent knowledge of Spanish.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.UK & EU fee    £9,250 (2018/19 - see below)Overseas fee    £19,390 (2018/19)For the most up to date information please visit the Fee Schedules pages of the UCL website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

                                      URL:
                                      https://www.ucl.ac.uk/selcs/study/undergraduate/spanish-latin-american-studies/tel%3A+44%20%280%2920%207679%203096
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Can I attend an Open Day?Yes, SELCS is represented by the Admissions Officer and Admissions Tutor at the following:Alternatively, if you are unable to attend either of these events then you may take:Finally, you may contact Undergraduate Admissions Officer to make an appointment to visit SELCS (visit Contact Us).How do I make an application to SELCS?All applicants interested in pursuing a SELCS degree programme on a full-time basis should submit a UCAS application by 15th January. Any applications made to UCAS after the 15th January will only be considered if there is still availability on the particular  programme you have applied for. More information about making an application can be found on the UCAS website. As soon as we receive your application we will write to you personally to request your language combination or language choice (for BA Modern Language, BA Modern Language Plus, BA Language and Culture and BA Comparative Literature). Can I apply for more than one SELCS degree programme?Yes, that's absolutely fine. If you do decide to do this then ensure that your UCAS personal statement caters to both degree programmes you have applied for.Does SELCS accept deferred entry applications?SELCS is happy to receive applications from prospective students who would like to take a gap year. If your decision to take a year out before starting university is related to your studies you may want to mention this in your UCAS form personal statement.How difficult is it to secure a place in SELCS?The ratio of applicants to place across SELCS is approximately 9 applications for every place available. The rate differs across the School's programmes, and can also fluctuate from year-to-year. Although this statistic can seem very daunting, as long as you are predicted, or have achieved, the relevant entry requirements then you are eligible to be considered for a place and should not be put off making an application.What subjects does SELCS prefer?SELCS doesn't ask that students study a particular combination of subjects other than the subjects necessary for the programme that you wish to pursue (see the "entry requirements" tab for further information). UCL preferred subjectsHow important is the personal statement of my UCAS form?The personal statement is a very important to help us to make informed decisions about whether an application should be considered further, and ultimately be the recipient of an offer. The Admissions Team look at the quality of writing in English, critical perceptiveness, depth of reading in the target language, intellectual acuity and curiosity. Evidence of interest in, motivation and an understanding of the literature, culture and society you have chosen to study, as well as an awareness of what studying foreign language(s) at university entails are also important. Finally, we look to see that you have understood the nature of the degree programme within SELCS to which you have applied and any extramural experiences relevant to your potential studies, such as volunteering and creative activities.What if I am applying to SELCS for a course that isn't available elsewhere? How do I tailor my personal statement?We are aware that some of our courses are only available at UCL, and you are applying for 5 choices with your UCAS form and personal statement. We do not require an additional personal statement as part of your application. Try to focus on the relevant skills that are relevant to all the courses you are applying for.Can I study any languages ab initio?You can study the majority of our languages ab inition (from beginners level) apart from French and Spanish, we only teach these languages at advanced level (post A-level or equivalent).The SELCS languages which can be studied ab initio are Dutch, German, Italian. Portugese and the Scandinavian languages (Danish, Icelandic, Norwegian and Swedish).If you wish to study Spanish or French ab initio (from below A-level standard) then you should consdier the BA Language & Culture. This degree programme has specifically been designed to increase the flexibility of language choices to SELCS students. With this in mind, students are able to study any of our languages on offer ab initio through either the specific language department or the UCL Centre for Languages and International Education (CLIE).Are mature students welcome to apply to a SELCS degree?Yes. SELCS tries to be as flexible as possible when it comes to mature students (people who are 21 years old at the point of entry to university). With the study of languages it is obviously important that you can demonstrate your aptitude for languages, therefore, you may find it worthwhile to contact the Undergraduate Admissions Officer to discuss your eligibility (visit Contact Us).What is the SELCS stance upon resits and/or taking three years to pass my A Levels?We are happy for prospective SELCS students to resit elements of their study to improve upon their original marks. If this means that your A-Level studies (or equivalent) take longer than the usual period of time, this is absolutely fine. If you do resit any elements of your exams it is very helpful for this to be - briefly - mentioned in your UCAS form as it helps to explain any information that may seem unusual.Does SELCS admit students via Clearing?The SELCS Admissions Tutors make more offers than the School has places available which means that SELCS does not participate in UCAS Clearing.Does UCL offer Halls of Residence accommodation?Yes. UCL guarantees Hall of Residence accommodation to all prospective students that choose UCL as their firm choice institution and have made an on-time application for accommodation to Student Residences (by 31st May of your year of entry).What careers can I go on to have as a graduate of SELCS?Languages equip you for a wide range of careers including everything from business, finance, the media, journalism, law and hospitality to public relations, the police, advertising, translation and interpreting, and teaching. As well as a very full programme of recruitment and other events, the UCL Careers Service run specific events advertising international and overseas career opportunities every year, targeting our undergraduates.How can I find out more about the academics across SELCS?Visit People pageWhat are Interdepartmental Modules?The Interdepartmental Modules or European Languages, Culture and Society (ELCS) modules are the modules run by SELCS (as opposed to the individual departments of the School). These modules are taught by academics from across the School which allows SELCS students to tap into the expertise of academics that are from outside of their home department. ELCS modules are usually based around literature, history, linguistics and film.View Interdepartmental ModulesHow does the year abroad work?SELCS offers a full range of possible options for the Year Abroad, depending upon your degree programme, which is a compulsory part of all our programmes (except BA Comparative Literature). We have educational exchanges with universities from Buenos Aires to Berlin, from Paris to Rome. It is also possible to teach English through the British Council Assistantship scheme in a school, or undertake a work placement or internship (subject to approval).The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Studying abroad is an exciting and highly rewarding, though often challenging experience, and one that will remain with you for the rest of your life. The experiences and skills developed while abroad further academic and personal development, cultural and social awareness, provide a foundation for further study and enhance career prospects (The Guardian, The Telegraph).The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes, which enables students to:•   Learn substantial new
academic and, in some cases, professional skills•   Develop spoken and
written language skills to a near-native level of proficiency•   Gain in-depth
knowledge of the culture they are studying•   Become independent and travel more widely•   Get ready for an international workplace•   Make new friends and contacts while learningYou can spend your Year Abroad studying at a partner university, teaching English in a school abroad via British Council, or organise a work placement for yourself. Click on a relevant link below for more information:•   Dutch•   French•   German•   Italian•   Portuguese•   Scandinavian Languages•   Spanish•   Students studying one language spend the whole Year Abroad in a country where the language is spoken.•   Students studying two languages split the Year Abroad between two countries where their target languages are spoken.•   Language and Culture BA and Comparative Literature BA students spend the full year at a university where the main language they are studying is spoken or they can apply for a British Council placement.•   'One language - one placement' rule: students studying one language cannot split their year between two institutions.•   Students splitting 
their Year Abroad between two countries must check and ensure the dates
 of the two placements do not overlap.•   Students are required to complete the full term of their allocated university placement, language assistantship or work placement.Students from other UCL departments should
consult their programme tutors and administrators about their Year Abroad
arrangements.The central UCL Study Abroad Team will advise students on all aspects of fees and funding for their Year Abroad. Please refer to their Finance webpage for more information.Some students may have visa requirements for some placements. The central UCL Study Abroad Team will provide guidance on this.Year Abroad modules are pass/fail only and do not contribute to the calculation of the degree classification. Year 2 students and students currently abroad should refer to the Year Abroad chapter of the SELCS UG Students Handbook on Moodle and to guidance on the central UCL Study Abroad Team website for more information and support.Please note: Information is accurate at the time of publication. The placement options are revised and the number of study places at partner universities is negotiated on an annual basis. This means that options may be subject to change, study places do fluctuate or partnerships can be pulled altogether, with very little notice. Please do remember this when you're thinking about your Year Abroad options and remember - the key to becoming a Global Citizen is to have an open mind!The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 The School of European Languages & Culture (SELCS)
comprises the Departments of Dutch, French, German, Italian, Scandinavian Studies and Spanish & Latin
American Studies. For the full
range of Programmes offered by each department, and more information on 
what each Programme offers, please visit the departments using the links below.UCL houses the largest centre for Dutch Studies in the English-speaking world. Find out more about our Programmes of study and Research.The department is at the cutting edge of current debate in French literature, culture, politics and film and is consistently ranked among the best in the world.The department is an interdisciplinary centre of excellence, offering the study of language and linguistics, literature, history, politics, theory and film.One of the biggest Italian departments in the UK, UCL Italian leads on all periods of Italian literature, from Dante to the present day.The department teaches the language, literature, history, linguistics and visual culture of Denmark, the Faroe Islands, Iceland, Norway and Sweden.Established in 1828 by Antonio Alcalá Galiano, the Department was one of the first in the UK and remains today a centre of academic excellence.With its exceptional range of modern and ancient languages and cultures, UCL provides a comprehensive environment for comparative literary study.This distinctive and highly flexible programme provides enormous scope for you to customise your degree according to your interest in languages, linguistics, film, literature and history.SELCS staff also provide the teaching within the following centres:Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 

				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				View of the Grand Canal from Rialto to Ca'Foscari - By Didier DescouensMany degree combinations and more.We offer Italian classes whatever your level....and read their experiences of studying at UCL....their exciting research makes for inspiring tuitionAnd apply!
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Third Floor, Foster Court, Malet Place, off Torrington Place, London, WC1E 6BT(Bloomsbury Campus - see UCL maps)
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				View of the Grand Canal from Rialto to Ca'Foscari - By Didier DescouensMade in Italy is a new series of evening courses
offering a uniquely comprehensive approach to learning the culture and history
of Italy.Since it started in 2015, our range of courses attracts adult
learners who wish to explore Italy’s cultural heritage and contemporary culture
through art, texts, literature and films.Joining our evening courses gives you access to the
world-renowned Italian department at UCL. Experts in the field will adapt and
share their research to make your learning experience profound and enjoyable at
the same time. 
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 From Cabiria to the Present: Key
Moments in Italian Cinema (Monday, 10 weeks in Term 3)   This
module will examine key moments and trends in Italian cinema from the early 20th century to the present day. The course will cover silent cinema, Neorealism, political films,
comedies and noir. It will look at the work of internationally famed directors
such as Roberto Rossellini, Luchino Visconti, Ettore Scola, Pietro Germi,
Bernardo Bertolucci, and Paolo Sorrentino. Module taught by Dr Cristina Massaccesi, Dr
Lucia Rinaldi and Dr Marta Niccolai
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 If you have no formal qualification in the subject of Medieval and
Renaissance studies but you have a strong interest and have pursued the subject
independently, attendance to two or more Made in Italy courses on Medieval and
Renaissance studies will allow you to apply for an MA  in Medieval Renaissance Studies.  Please check their entry requirements
under MA degree (Prospective students).     1) Introduction to Renaissance studies (Thursday,
10 weeks in Term 3) The module will cover the period of the 1500, in particular,
the debate between religion and astronomy with the controversial figure of
Galileo Galilei, the question of etiquette and morality through The Book of the Courtier by Baldassarre
di Castiglione, and great leaders, laws and arms discussed by Niccolò Machiavelli
in his famous The Prince. Module taught by Andrew Campbell. 2) The Renaissance genius (Tuesday, 10 weeks in Term 2) This unique module will explore the concept of ‘genius’
through the concept of the ideal Renaissance man and the classical concept of humanitas .  Are humans limitless in their capacity for
development? What lessons can we draw from the idea of universal education?
Through seminars, analyses of texts and images, the course will illustrate the
multifaceted reality of some of the greatest thinkers of the Renaissance and of
all times, namely, Leon Battista Alberti, Leonardo da Vinci and Michelangelo
Buonarroti.  Module taught by Dr Tiziana Provvidera. 3) Magicians and Philosophers in the Renaissance (Monday, 10 weeks in Term 2)   This unique module explores the notion of ‘magic’ within
some fundamental philosophical and historical issues relevant during the
Renaissance. The notion of Magic, the practice of prophecy and divination and
its condemnation by the Church, will be discussed through the works of Marsilio
Ficino, Giordano Bruno, Tommaso Campanella and Pico della Mirandola.Module taught by Dr Tiziana Provvidera.4) Living at the birth of the Renaissance, between
1350 and 1650(Wednesday, 10 weeks in Term 3) The Renaissance is traditionally considered to
be a moment of rebirth, but what was the experience of those living through the
period? This unique module will examine different perspectives on the
Renaissance, using literature and historical sources to build up a picture of
the transition from the late Middle Ages to the Renaissance. We will explore
the lives of those involved in printing, practising religion in confraternities
and convents, dealing with healthcare in hospitals and during epidemics, and debating
what the Italian language should look like in the Questione della Lingua.  Module taught by Dr Alexandra Lee.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				For further information regarding the course curriculum
please write to the convenor, Marta Niccolai, marta.niccolai@ucl.ac.uk and for
modules administration please contact the Italian Departmental office on 0207
6797784 or email: italian.office@ucl.ac.uk
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				  All classes take place between 6 and 8 pm and are located in the Italian department, 3rd floor, Foster Court  (Malet Place).    Magicians and Philosophers in the RenaissanceDay: Mondays from 6pm to 8pmDuration: 10 weeks, from January 8th 2018 to March 19th 2018Room: FC351  The Renaissance GeniusDay: Tuesdays from 6pm to 8pmDuration:  10 weeks, from January 9th 2018 to March 20th 2018Room: FC331  College Reading week: starts 12th February 2018 (no classes)From Cabiria to the present: key moments in Italian cinemaDay: Mondays from 6pm to 8pmDuration: 10 weeks, from 23rd April 2018 to 25th June 2018Room: FC351Living at the birth of the Renaissance, between 1350 and 1650Day: Wednesdays from 6pm to 8pmDuration: 10 weeks, from 25th of April to 27th of JuneRoom: FC351Introduction to Renaissance studies Day: Thursdays from 6m to 8pmDuration: 10 weeks, from 26th April 2018 to 28th June 2018Room: FC331
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				No formal entry qualification but a curiosity of Italy and
its culture is required. Basic knowledge of Italian can be beneficial but not
essential, should some handouts be in the original language.  Enrolment for each individual module is mandatory. We encourage you to enrol as early as possible by
completing the enrolment form and send it to the Made in Italy
convenor,  Dr Marta Niccolai at marta.niccolai@ucl.ac.uk.Module fee: £350Senior fee: £250UCL staff: £300Students: £200 To confirm your
enrolment together with your payment, we need to receive your enrolment form. Payment can be made online (Online store, see links below) or by
cheque. Please make cheques payable to ‘University College London’ and send to: Made In Italy
 Department of Italian
 School of European Languages, Culture &
Society
 University College London
 Gower Street
 London WC1E 6BTIntroduction to
Renaissance studies The Renaissance
Genius Magicians and
Philosophers in the RenaissanceFrom Kabiria to the present: key moments in
Italian cinemaLiving at the birth of the Renaissance, between
1350 and 1650
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Classes are taught through lectures, seminars, presentations and group works.Sessions are delivered in English with material provided in English and some in Italian.The reading material will be made available on the online course Moodle that will be made accessible to enrolled students.Made in Italy is convened by Dr Marta Niccolai.Modules will be taught by experts in their
field and you will have access to a wealth of knowledge, experience and
research.One 2 hour session a week
delivered over 5 weeks (10 hours in total) or 10 weeks (20 hours in total). For
further details see: Times, Dates and Locations.There is no formal assessment of
these modules. Outcomes are based on students’ own ability and progression.A certificate of attendance is issued with 70% attendance of a
course.If you have no formal qualification in the subject of Medieval and
Renaissance studies but you have a strong interest and have pursued the subject
independently, attendance to two or more Made in Italy courses on Medieval and
Renaissance studies will allow you to apply for an MA in Medieval Renaissance
StudiesPlease check their entry requirements under MA degree (Prospective
students) http://www.ucl.ac.uk/mars.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The calendar (including some special screenings) will
be posted on the film club's blog page. The movies will be in Italian with Italian or English 
subtitles and will be introduced by Dr Cristina Massaccesi (contact: 
c.massaccesi@ucl.ac.uk).
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Our staff are not just teachers: they are among the leading
researchers in many areas of Italian Studies, including linguistics, Dante, the
Renaissance, modern and contemporary literature, modern historical and cultural
studies, cinema, art and design history. UCL Italian students are the first
beneficiaries of all that expertise, through courses that reflect cutting-edge
thinking on a host of different subjects. Read more...Professor in Italian StudiesLecturer in Italian HistorySenior Lecturer in ItalianProfessor of Italian Cultural HistorySenior Teaching Fellow and Italian Language CoordinatorReader in Italian and Comparative LiteratureProfessor in Italian Literature and Writer in ResidenceSenior Teaching FellowProfessor in LinguisticsReader in Early Modern Italian StudiesReader in Italian StudiesAnd apply!
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Our staff are not just teachers: they are among the leading
researchers in many areas of Italian Studies, including linguistics, Dante, the
Renaissance, modern and contemporary literature, modern historical and cultural
studies, cinema, art and design history. UCL Italian students are the first
beneficiaries of all that expertise, through courses that reflect cutting-edge
thinking on a host of different subjects. Our
students quickly sense that they are in a hive of research activity. We hold
lively research seminars, open to all, with frequent contributions from
international scholars based in Italy, the rest of Europe, and the USA. We have
a high profile in the UK and world media. Several members of staff appear
regularly on radio and TV in the UK, Italy and beyond as experts in their
discipline; members of staff have also written frequently for the press.
Professor Robert Lumley has collaborated closely with Tate Modern and other
galleries, curating and writing on Italian contemporary art. In 2015, Dr
Catherine Keen and Professor John Took were involved in a series of events at
the Italian Cultural Institute to celebrate the 750th anniversary of Dante's
birth. In 2016, Professor John Dickie's history of Italian food was turned into
a six-part series on Italian television, which Prof Dickie presented himself.
We are the only UK Italian department with a writer-in-residence, Enrico
Palandri. Several members of staff have been awarded civil honours (the
equivalent of the British MBE or OBE) for their research by the President of
the Italian Republic.  UCL has an
unrivalled range of research resources on its doorstep. There is nowhere in
Britain that affords students such wonderful facilities for private study, and
such rich opportunities to work on first-hand Italian source material for their
essays and dissertations. UCL Library
is the largest and oldest college library in the University of London. It has
four special collections that include early Italian books: the Rotton and Ogden
collections (roughly 80,000 volumes), as well as the Castiglione and Dante
collections. All told, UCL library has a better holding of pre-twentieth
century Italian books than any other higher education institution in the UK. Students
also have access to the 14 million books in the nearby British Library (not
forgetting an astonishing 164 million other items, ranging from manuscripts to
sound recordings). As well as being a copyright library, entitled by law to a
copy of every book published in the UK, the British Library has the largest
collection of early printed books anywhere in the world. The number of Italian
publications is particularly large owing to influence of Antonio Panizzi,
founder of the library in its modern form and the first Professor of Italian at
UCL nearly two hundred years ago. The British
Newspaper Library at Colindale contains many Italian newspapers. The library of
the British Film Institute is a short walk away; it holds most of the major
Italian film periodicals published since the 1930s and many books on Italian
cinema. In addition, students have easy access to the libraries of the
Institute of Historical Research, the University of London in Senate House, the
Warburg Institute, the LSE, the Courtauld Institute, and the Wellcome Trust. 
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				All seminars are held on Wednesdays from 6pm in the Italian Seminar Room, Room 351, 
Third Floor, Foster Court, Malet Place, UCL, Gower Street, London, WC1E 
6BT (unless otherwise stated). View map (PDF)Maurizio Ferraris Learning from Post-Truth6.30 pm - Garwood Lecture Theatre, Room 9, First Floor, South Wing, UCL, Gower StreetMassimo Fusillo  Negative Empathy, Fear, Catharsis: An Intermedial Itinerary5.30pm - Foster Court 307Marco
Pescetelli         
Filologia e
restauro dei silent film Silvia
Costantino, Severino Antonelli, Claudia Durastanti      
 The Florentine Magazine:
exploring contemporary Italian writers David Lines               
 Teaching Language(s) at the University of
Bologna in the Sixteenth and Seventeenth Centuries: Practices and Debates Alessandro
Baronciani Comics, Sirens
and Self-Production  MODERN ITALIAN HISTORY SEMINAR SERIES - SPRING TERM 2016Conveners: Ilaria Favretto (Kingston), Maurizio Isabella (QMUL), Axel Körner (UCL), Carl Levy (Goldsmiths) All
meetings will take place on Wednesdays
at 5:30 in the Past &
Present Room (202) of the Institute of Historical Research, Senate House (Malet
St, London, WC1E 7HU), unless
otherwise stated. For updated information see http://www.history.ac.uk24 February 2016 - Book launch  Enrico dal Lago (NUI Galway), The Age of Lincoln and Cavour: Comparative Perspectives on Nineteenth-Century American and Italian Nation-Building. New York: Palgrave, 2015 William Lloyd Garrison and Giuseppe
Mazzini: Abolition, Democracy, and Radical Reform. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State
University Press, 2013Discussants: Eugenio Biagini (Cambridge), Nico Pizzolato (Middlesex)Chair: Axel Körner (UCL) 2 March 2016 - 3:00 pm - 7:30 pmInstitute of Advanced Studies, UCL, South Wing, Room G09, Gower Street, LondonVisual Storytelling. Examples from ItalyOrganized by the
AHRC-funded research project “Interdisciplinary Italy 1900-2020:
Interart/Intermedia” and hosted by the UCL Institute of Advanced Studies, this
multidisciplinary symposium explores the rich diversity of visual and verbal
art in contemporary Italy. We are delighted to welcome the illustrator and
painter Tullio Pericoli, one of Italy’s most distinguished contemporary
artists, who will speak, in conversation with Prof. Simona Corso (Roma Tre),
about how literature has shaped his artistic imagination. Interartistic
creativity will be envisaged as a constantly changing, dynamic field of
investigation, which has been, and continues to be, a driving force of modern
art. We will begin with a plenary lecture by the poet and scholar Prof. Jan
Baetens Professor of Cultural Studies at the University of Leuven and a leading
authority on literature and the visual arts. The afternoon will end with a
roundtable, chaired by Dr Florian Mussgnug (UCL), which will include
contributions by Dr Pierpaolo Antonello (Cambridge), Prof. Timothy Mathews
(UCL) and Dr Giuliana Pieri (Royal Holloway).This event is part of the project "Interdisciplinary Italy". You can find more information here: www.interdisciplinaryitaly.orgThe event is free, but please register at https://www.eventbrite.com/e/visual-storytelling-examples-from-italy-tickets-21079376984For further
information, please download the programme here or contact the organizer: f.mussgnug@ucl.ac.uk Francesca Pola (art curator)Arte Contemporanea a Villa Pisani Marco Mondini (ISIG-FBK)The War Life Experience in Italian First World War Autobiographical WritingSimone Brioni (SUNY) - Unfortunately due to unforseem circumstances this seminar has been cancelled.Race, Gender and the ‘Aliens’ in Luce D’Eramo’s Partiranno (1986) Ruth Ben-Ghiat (NYU) - Unfortunately this seminar has been cancelled.Italian Fascism’s Empire Cinema Francesca Medaglia (Lincei + BA)Allegory and Psychology in Multi-authorship WritingAlessandro GuettaItalian Jewish Intellectuals' usage of Hebrew and Italian in the late Renaissance Silvia Contarini
(Université Paris Ouest Nanterre La DéfenseLetteratura italiana e multiculturalitàDavide Dalmas (Università di Torino)Letteratura italiana e Riforma protestante: un
incontro impossibile?Claude Perrus (Université Sorbonne
Nouvelle – Paris 3)Come
leggere la Commedia di
Dante: la lezione dei poeti (Eliot, Mandelstam, e altri)Jane Tylus (New York University)Pastoral, Peasants, and Portraits of Rural Life in the Renaissance: Ruzante, the Rozzi, and Shakespeare Marie-José Tramuta (Université de Caen)Alberto Savinio e l'Europa: un artista pellegrino sotto il segno di MercurioGiulia Ammannati and Francesco Giancane
(Scuola Normale Superiore di Pisa)Le
epigrafi di Poggio Mirteto: la scoperta di una lauda di
inizio TrecentoThursday 16 October 2014Department of History of Art (20-21 Gordon Square, London  WC1H 0AG)Seminar Room 36pmAra H. Merjian (New York University)Painting in Chains: Giorgio de Chirico’s Willful
ClaustrophiliaPart of the History of Art research seminars, held in collaboration with the Italian Department.Alessandra Montalbano (Scuola Normale Superiore di Pisa)Combating Ransom Kidnapping in Modern Italy:
Magistrates, Memoirs, Media Thursday 23 October 2014,3pm - 6pmUCL Chandler House, 2 Wakefield Street, London, WC1N 1PF, Room 118Lampedusa: Migratory Space, Memory and Aesthetics  Luca Baldoni (James Madison University) and Flaviano Pisanelli (Montpellier III - Paul Valéry)Poesia e omosessualità nel Novecento italiano Jessica Goethals (Villa I Tatti, Harvard University)From the Grotesque to the Galilean: Margherita
Costa and the Spectacle of Baroque Female DramaturgyLucia Rinaldi (UCL)The Many Lives of Inspector MontalbanoItalian Merchants Abroad and the Use of Foreign Languages, 14th-16th CenturiesFrancesco Guidi-Bruscoli (University of Florence)Il fantastico femminile: una questione di genereBeatrice Manetti (University of Turin)Traumi e vittime: introduzione alla narrativa italiana contemporaneaDaniele Giglioli (University of Bergamo) in conversation with Stefano JossaIn collaboration with Royal HollowayIl "New Italian Realism": genesi, caratteri, dibattito (2008-2013)  Davide Luglio
(Université Paris-Sorbonne)L'ermetismo: una generazione Anna Dolfi (University of
Florence)"Porte aperte": la mafia, il fascismo e la polizia negli anni TrentaManoela PattiCentre Stage Series: Rehearsing TranslationChaired by Eva Daníčková (Dramaturgs’ Network)Centre Stage Series: Commedia dell’Arte: From Street to Salon Oliver Crick (Artistic Director of The Fabulous
Old Spot Theatre Company)Chaired
by Chris Stamatakis (UCL)Centre Stage Series: Not Pierrot, More Pirandello! Facilitated by Charlotte CoxChaired
by Enza De Francisci (UCL)Centre Stage Series: Homage to Franca Rame: Actress, Writer, ActivistLed by Joseph Farrell (University of
Strathclyde)Chaired
by Marta Niccolai (UCL)Silvano Montaldo (University of Turin)Many
 Western museums in recent decades have had to deal with the question of
 the return of human remains (ancestral bones, heads and body parts) 
contained in their collections. This talk reconstructs the court case 
and media coverage surrounding the skull of Giuseppe Villella, displayed
 in the Lombroso Museum of the University of Turin. Villella was a petty
 thief, imprisoned in Pavia where he died, but his skull became famous 
in the scientific community due to its connection to Lombroso’s 
criminological theory. It was by studying this particular skull, in 
1870, that Lombroso first thought he identified the signs of a 
particular conformation of the brain that caused criminal behaviour. 
That moment of ‘discovery’ was the start not only of a criminological 
theory, but of one of the first hypothesis about the relationship 
between behaviour and biology. A controversial court case, triggered by 
Italian politicians eager to label the Museum as racist, now threatens 
the continued presence of the skull in the museum. This talk highlights 
the value of this specimen for the history of science, the positions of 
the main protagonists of the skull controversy and the risks that 
historical revisionism poses to the future of cultural heritage.Giuseppe Sangirardi (Université de Bourgogne)From
 Romantic idealism to postmodernism, from Hegel to Calvino, irony has 
always been seen as the key for interpreting Ludovico Ariosto’s Orlando 
furioso and has functioned as the base of a literary paradigm that 
supposedly allows for a comprehensive understanding of the multiple 
layers of meaning of this Renaissance masterpiece. However, despite – or
 perhaps thanks to – its success, this idea is not guileless. In fact, 
there are different kinds of irony in the Furioso, not only because 
Ariosto’s models for irony were various, but also because many have been
 the critical perspectives from which this idea has been elaborated on. 
Combining reception theory and textual philology, this talk outlines the
 critical panorama of Ariosto’s irony and illustrates some of its most 
unusual landscapes.Please note: this talk will be in Italian.Chaired by Professor Marina Warner and performed by Marco GambinoThe School of Sons is
 a desperate and profoundly human soliloquy, of Stefano Pirandello, the 
eldest son of Luigi Pirandello. Through these words, spoken by a son, 
his father’s total victim, we catch the most subtle intimacies of a 
family, so deeply tragic in character as to become paradoxically 
umoristico – as well as all the disgust and nausea of a son who was 
plagiarised and mocked. Luigi Pirandello’s love for his children was so 
unhealthy that they seemed to him creatures in every way like the 
characters of his plays: uncertain figures whom he loathed and 
ridiculed, as he probably also did himself. We only have to read a few 
lines by Stefano Pirandello (he was also a playwright who modestly 
called himself Landi) to understand the suffering and self-abasement of 
this man. ‘Death is not possible for me.  Nor is birth.  Truly, we’re 
here, as if we were forever born, as if we were forever alive’.In
 the working-class areas of Naples, private ceremonies are a thriving 
business. This is one of the few areas in the world where the stars are 
not the internationally-renowned ones promoted by MTV but are home-grown
 singers. At wedding parties, which may last over twelve hours, the 
performers enthral relatives and friends of the hosts throughout a 
gargantuan banquet. Weddings, first communions, christenings, birthdays 
and neighbourhood celebrations form the background to Le Coccinelleshows that entertain an audience consumed with curiosity. Children are entranced and the women are moved by the show of Le Coccinelle.
 The ties that bind the women with the Neapolitan transsexuals are 
ancient and deep and except for ceremonies, only women are allowed to 
watch their performances. In restaurant dining rooms decked out in fake 
Baroque style, Le Coccinelle sing and perform their acts. They 
tell stories of prostitution, of the judgement by Naples’s upper class, 
of the hypocrisy of their clients; but they also recount their 
friendships with the women of the back streets and the Neapolitans’ 
joyous way of life.The director Emanuela Pirelli 
is a young photographer and filmmaker from Naples. She graduated at the 
Rome’s Institute of Photography and Communication and did photo 
reportage work for magazines and agencies in Naples, Rome, Milan, 
Amsterdam and Berlin. In 2002 she attended the Documentary School by 
Doc/it and Zelig. Since then she has worked as camera operator and 
assistant director for documentaries, news and TV formats for both 
Italian and foreign productions. She directed behind the scenes, arts 
films and filmed for several documentaries such as Winners and Losers 
(2007) by Lech Kowalsky.The film (in Italian 
with English subtitles) will be introduced by Nicola G. Ibba and will be
 followed by a Q&A with the director. When it comes to freedom of the press, Italy ranks 57th in the
world according to Reporters sans Frontières. Yet Italian citizens have access
to many respected national newspapers, seven TV channels, a lively scene of
information websites, a multiplicity of newswires and radios, and, possibly,
more political talk shows than most other countries. How can such a situation be
considered as being only ‘partly free’? With a media tycoon having run the
country for the majority of the last 20 years, Italian journalism has seen its
reputation dragged through the mire. Will it be restored now that Berlusconi’s
power is declining? How is the country’s media landscape coping with the
ongoing hard economic crisis? Tracing an history of journalism it Italy and
analysing the way reporters currently operate, the two speakers will try to
give an answer to these questions.John Lloyd
 is a
Contributing Editor for the Financial
Times, Director of Journalism at the Reuters Institute for the Study of
Journalism, and a columnist for La
Repubblica of Rome. At the Financial Times, he has been
Labour Editor, Industrial Editor, East European Editor and Moscow Bureau
 Chief.
In 2003 he launched the FT
Magazinewhich he edited until 2005. He is chairman of the Advisory Board
 of
the Moscow School of Civic Enlightenment. John Lloyd has won awards as 
Journalist of the Year,Specialist
Writer of the Year and the David Watt Prize. He has been
editor of The New Statesman in the 1980s and of Time Out in the 1970s. 
He has worked for Weekend World, the London Programme (LWT) and for 
Independent Radio News.
His books include Eserciti di
carta, an insightful analysis of journalism in Italy written with
Ferdinando Giugliano. Cristina Marconi is an
Italian freelance journalist and former fellow at the Reuters Institute for the
Study of Journalism in Oxford. She spent six years in Brussels as a correspondent
for Italian media and, before that, she worked in Rome as a financial reporter
for a newswire. A graduate in Philosophy at the Scuola Normale Superiore in
Pisa, she is currently based in London and is working on two projects on the
European Union: a research on the press coverage of the debt crisis and a
documentary about the future of the EU.In conversation with Dr Emanuela Tandello (University of
Oxford)From August to November 2013, the National Theatre staged
Pirandello’s Liolà in a new version by Tanya Ronder, directed by Richard Eyre.
The lead actor, Rory Keenan, will discuss how it felt to perform Liolà,
offering an ‘inside’ view of this new staging which combines the Irish world of
the actors with the Sicilian world of the characters. The session will be
concluded with a reading by the actor of an extract from Pirandello’s work.Andrea Del Corno (London Library)This talk addresses Italian political journalism in London during the years 1840-1859, primarily focusing on four journals (Apostolato Popolare, Il Pellegrino, L’Educatore and Pensiero ed Azione) run
 by Giuseppe Mazzini (1805-1872), the Italian activist whose advocacy 
for national independence and democracy was inspirational for the 1861 
Unification of Italy.  Circumstances surrounding the printing and 
circulation of these journals have not yet been fully investigated. 
 This talk scrutinises their dissemination and political significance 
within the diffusion of Italian and, more widely, foreign-language 
printed materials in Victorian London.  Prominent attention is given to a
 rare, if not unique, print-run of Il Pellegrino, of which, until
 recently, no copies were known to be extant.  Mazzini’s political 
journals represent an outstanding and prime example of Italian exile 
culture and foreign-language publication in nineteenth-century London.Luca VulloAn
 invigorating and informative journey through the art of gesticulation, 
led by film director, Luca Vullo. The director will introduce his 
docu-film, La voce del corpo, and offer a behind-the-scenes discussion 
on his innovative work following the 60-minute screening. A unique 
opportunity to learn how to gesticulate and ‘speak’ Italian through the 
particular code of body language.Marco GambinoTalkingestures
 is a pilot to a larger project on body language. The expressive 
Sicilians have stereotypically been characterized a population which 
relies heavily on gesticulation. To exemplify the importance of 
gestures, the actor, Marco Gambino, with the support of film director, 
Luca Vullo, will present two versions of the same monologue. The first 
will see the actor perform the monologue through mime, alongside a video
 and musical support. In the second, Gambino will present the same 
monologue this time including the ‘missing’ words, and, in comparing the
 two different ways of communicating, will strengthen the value of 
talkingestures.Annamaria Giusti (Opificio delle Pietre Dure, Florence)This lecture illustrated the various aspects and phases of the restoration of Lorenzo
Ghiberti’s Gates of Paradise, the Florentine Renaissance masterpiece
constructed between 1425 and 1452 that once adorned the east entrance to the
Baptistery in Florence. A monumental set of gilded bronze doors standing at
just over five metres tall and containing scenes from the Old Testament, the
Gates of Paradise were in poor shape after more than five centuries, blackened
by wind, weather, and pollution – not to mention the catastrophic flooding of
Florence in 1966. The damage was caused by excessive humidity which allowed
salts to crystallise on the bronze and corrode small holes in the surface.
Removed in 1990, when replicas were installed on the Baptistery’s hinges, the
sculpted doors underwent a long period of restoration (more than two decades),
in which a nitrogen atmosphere was used to protect them. Today, installed in
their own room at the Museo dell’Opera del Duomo in Florence, the Gates of
Paradise are back on display in a protective case that guarantees a constant
level of humidity at 20% and filters the air in the casing, removing dust and
harmful gases.Annamaria Giusti is the
Director of the Opificio delle Pietre Dure, one of the foremost conservation
institutes in the world, and directed the conservation work that restored the
Gates of Paradise to their former glory.Chaired by: Beatrice SicaMahnaz Yousefzadeh (New York University)The
 city of Florence inaugurated her newly built galley system in 1422, 
sending two ambassadors to Cairo to visit the Mamluk Sultan Barsbay. 
This lecture offered a close reading of the diary of one ambassador, 
Felice Brancacci, a prominent Florentine silk merchant and the patron of
 Masaccio’s iconic frescoes in the Brancacci Chapel of the Church of 
Santa Maria del Carmine in Florence.  The diary opened the way for an 
investigation into 15th-century cultural encounters in the 
Mediterranean, disclosing the nature of the relationship between Muslim 
and Christian capital cities. The examination of the chronicle revealed 
the ways in which Felice’s personal experiences as merchant, ambassador,
 visitor, and Christian guest in Egypt led not only to patronage, but 
also yielded the actual themes and iconography of Masaccio’s iconic 
fresco, “Tribute Money,” which was commissioned immediately upon 
Brancacci’s return from Egypt.  The lecture’s analysis of Brancacci’s 
cross-cultural maritime experience hence provideed important insights 
into the meaning of Masaccio’s enigmatic work.Chaired by: Beatrice SicaGraziella Parati (Dartmouth College)Igiaba
 Scego’s attempt to remap Rome according to a familial memory of Somalia
 sets up an interesting framework in spatial thinking that defines an 
“other’s” approach to urban space.This event was in collaboration with the UCL Centre for Intercultural StudiesChaired by: Federica MazzaraKenneth P Clarke (University of York)With its highly complex moral landscape, the Decameron is an unusual source for Renaissance wedding chests or cassoni, which usually emphasize female virtues and obedience. Indeed, the iconography of these cassoni was mostly drawn from Latin sources such as works by Plutarch or Suetonius and the Decameron was much less frequently deployed. This talk examined some of the surviving cassoni depicting scenes from the Decameron. It looked in particular at Griselda (Dec X 10) and Zinevra (Dec II 9), in two sets of highly unusual cassoni, exploring the ways in which these women are represented and how their virtue is reinterpreted and repackaged for its audience.This
 seminar formed part of a series of medieval Italian events planned at 
UCL that year, in connection with current research projects and with the
 2013 Boccaccio Septcentenary.Chaired by: Catherine KeenAs a student at the Slade School of Fine Art Lorenza Mazzetti made her first film K based on Kafka’s Metamorphosis,
 featuring fellow student Michael Andrews as Gregor Samsa. With support 
from the Slade Professor William Coldstream and the director of the BFI,
 Denis Forman, Mazzetti was financed by the BFI Experimental Film Fund 
to make Together, with Eduardo Paolozzi and Michael Andrews as deaf-mute dockworkers in London’s bomb-damaged East End. Together
 was shown at the first Free Cinema event at the NFT in 1956.  With its 
credo of subjectivity, poetic freedom and the elevation of the everyday,
 Free Cinema brought Mazzetti into contact with figures such as Lindsay 
Anderson, Karel Reisz, Tony Richardson, Walter Lassally and John 
Fletcher. In its pronounced rejection of theatrical cinematic 
conventions, Free Cinema’s relationship with Italian neorealism, radical
 British documentary and ‘Kitchen Sink’ drama, situates it at a 
contested but fascinating point within post–war British culture. As an 
Italian woman in a predominantly male domain, working at the cusp of the
 profound social and cultural shifts later associated with the 1960’s, 
Mazzetti offers unique insights into the creative and intellectual 
ambitions of the Free Cinema Movement in Britain.Mazzetti returned to Italy in 1956 where she made documentary films and wrote two novels. Her 1961 novel Il Cielo Cade
 (The Sky Falls,) based on her traumatic childhood wartime experiences, 
was made into the 2000 film directed by Andrea and Antonio Frazzi, 
starring Isabella Rossellini. She worked collaboratively for many years 
in puppet theatre and continues to paint prolifically. London Diaries
 – Mazzetti’s account of her time in England will be published by 
Sellario in Italy later this year. She lives and works in Rome.Chaired by: Cristina MassaccesiAlessandra Cerreti (Direzione Distrettuale Antimafia, Reggio Calabria)Alessandra
 Cerreti fa parte della Direzione Distrettuale Antimafia di Reggio 
Calabria, dove si occupa della ’ndrangheta. È titolare di procedimenti 
che hanno condotto a centinaia di arresti di appartenenti a questa 
organizzazione mafiosa e alla cattura di pericolosi latitanti. Ha 
chiesto e ottenuto il sequestro dei beni di componenti o prestanomi 
delle cosche mafiose per un totale di 220 milioni di Euro. Ha, infine, 
ottenuto e gestito la prima collaborazione con la giustizia di una donna
 di ’ndrangheta, Giuseppina Pesce.Chaired by: John DickieSarah Dunant and Professor Lisa JardineSarah
 Dunant and Professor Lisa Jardine discussed the extent to which 
historical fiction has, over the last twenty
years, become an ambassador for academic historical writing. This 
discussion considered the publication of Sarah Dunant's novel set in
Renaissance Italy and centred on the Borgia, Blood and Beauty.Sarah Dunant is the international bestselling author of
the novels The Birth of Venus, In the Company of the Courtesan and Sacred
Hearts, all set in Renaissance Italy. Sarah Dunant is also a broadcaster and
critic. She was a founding vice patron of the Orange Prize for women's fiction
and sits on the editorial board of the Royal Academy magazine.Lisa Jardine CBE is Professor of Renaissance Studies at
University College London. Professor Jardine is Director of the Centre for
Humanities Interdisciplinary Research Projects and Director of the Centre for
Editing Lives and Letters. She is a fellow of the Royal Historical Society and
an Honorary Fellow of King's College, Cambridge and Jesus College, Cambridge.
She has published extensively on the Renaissance including works on Bacon,
Shakespeare and Erasmus.Chaired by: Timothy DemetrisJeffrey Schnapp (Harvard University)Guido Mazzoni (University of Siena)Between the middle of the sixteenth century and the end of the
eighteenth, the method of representing social and moral life in European novels
changed completely. While in the last two centuries the novel has become the
genre in which any kind of story can be narrated in any manner, until the
second half of the eighteenth century the representation of reality in novels
had to follow strict rules that were implicitly assumed by both readers and
writers. Such were, for example, the Platonic-Christian obligation to moralize
stories and heroes, showing the vices punished and the virtues rewarded, and
the rule of differentiating writing styles according to the social classes that
were represented. What we call today "modern novel" stems precisely
from overcoming these rules and asuumptions. The genre born from that
metamorphosis brough a new vision of the world.John Foot (UCL)This lecture will look at the origins of radical psychiatry in Italy, a
movement which took control of asylums in order to close them down, and which
began in Gorizia, on the border with Yugoslavia, in 1961. The talk will discuss
how a small group of psychiatrists were able to link up with the ideas and
movements of 1968, and how this movement has been analysed and mythologised in
subsequent years.Simone Brioni (University of Warwick)Who are you? In an attempt to give an answer to this apparently simple
question, Ribka Sibhatu, Italian writer and essayist of Eritrean origin,
presents the history of her homeland in her current city, Rome. In her
imaginary trip backwards through her memories, she is accompanied by a young
Italian man, who shares her same interest in exploring the relationship between
identity and territory. Ribka’s own personal story intersects powerfully with
the stories of the Eritrean diaspora, which not only does it show the fault
traces that colonialism has left behind in her country, but also demonstrates
how the perception of immigration in Italy has been profoundly influenced by an
apparent failure in the process of decolonization in Italian collective memory.
Aulò brings into question the concept of confine, not only in geographical, but
also in cultural and identitarian terms.Robert Gordon (University of Cambridge)in conversation with the author, presents:Opened in 1870, Le Nuove was one of Italy’s first
panoptical prisons. During the Second World War it was occupied by the Nazis,
who executed and deported anti-Fascist and Jewish prisoners held there. In the
1970s it housed left-wing ‘terrorists,’ who spearheaded violent riots that
spread to prisons across Italy and intimidated and assassinated prison staff.
When Le Nuove finally closed down in October 2003, the
memories of the tragic events that occurred there became obstacles to its
demolition. This book examines the cultural memory of Le Nuove via
oral history, archival research and the material traces left within the
building itself to discuss memory, heritage and the legacy of political
violence in contemporary Italy.Discutono: Stefano Jossa (Royal Holloway) e Gabriele Pedullà (Universita' degli Studi di Roma Tre).Si dice spesso che la letteratura è un viaggio, nello spazio come nel tempo. Ma fino ad ora, nessuno aveva mai provato a scriverne la storia con gli strumenti del viaggiatore (di ieri o di oggi): la carta geografica, la guida artistica, la mappa topografica, se non proprio il navigatore satellitare. In questa nuova «Grande Opera» – frutto del lavoro di quasi duecento specialisti provenienti dal mondo intero – la storia della letteratura italiana viene raccontata per la prima volta alla maniera di Albert Einstein: come un vertiginoso viaggio nello spaziotempo. Ci sono i grandi personaggi della nostra letteratura, ritratti, quasi fosse una fotografia «istantanea», in un momento decisivo della loro vita. Ci sono i libri fondamentali della nostra civiltà letteraria, restituiti alla ricchezza (e alla complessità) dell’epoca storica in cui vennero prodotti. E ci sono – riconoscibili come mai prima d’ora – i luoghi di un’Italia letteraria che si estende ben oltre i limiti dello stivale: le città e le strade, gli edifici e le case, i panorami e i paesaggi, negli otto secoli che separano il 1200 dal Duemila. Lunghi intrecci e brevi istanti di svolta. Una mappa della fantasia italiana.Chair: Robert Lumley (UCL)Marco Assennato was born in Palermo in 1978. He has lived in Paris since 2009. He graduated in philosophy, with a thesis on Spinoza. His main field of research is the relationship between politics and architecture. He is currently doing a PhD at ENSA, Paris-Malaquais, working on a research project on Manfredo Tafuri.International Conference with the support of the UCL School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS) and the UCL Faculty Institute of Graduate Studies (FIGS)Organizers:  Florian Mussgnug (UCL) and  Emanuela Patti (UCL)Confirmed Speakers:Emanuela Patti (UCL, Cagliari): Remediating collective identities, narratives and myths in literature in the new media contextJakob Stoutgaard–Nielsen (UCL) Authorship in the digital eraClaudia Boscolo (Royal Holloway) Transmedia storytelling and contemporary Italian Fiction: An Overview Tommaso Pincio (writer and artist, Rome)Cristina Massaccesi (UCL) Transmedial Contamination in Italian Graphic NarrativesOtto Gabos (Graphic Novelist)Federica Chiocchetti (UCL)  Literature and photography countering the mimetic: a theoretical exploration.Daniele Salerno (University of Bologna)On June 27th 1980, an aircraft en route from Bologna to Palermo plunged into the Tyrrhenian Sea off the island of Ustica, near Sicily. Eighty-one people died. From 1984 to 1999, three different judges investigated the case. According to the most recent sentence, the aircraft was probably shot down by a missile, launched by a warplane belonging to an unknown NATO country.The main aim of this research (in progress) is to analyse the shaping of the public memory of this event, which found its pivotal moment in the construction of the Museum for the Memory of Ustica in Bologna. I argue that this process can be divided in three periods: the period of latency (1980-1986); the period of recognition of the massacre (1990s to early 2000s); and the years of conflicting memories (which lasts up to the present and is ongoing). These conflicts link up to a dual and interconnected tendency in the shaping of the Italian public memory of those years (the so called ‘Years of Lead’): the inability of State institutions to create an acceptable collective version of this event, and the victims’ narratives which have been pivotal in legitimising different versions of the past.Filippo La Porta (Rome) Filippo La Porta is a one of Italy’s leading literary critics. He regularly writes for Corriere della sera, Il Messaggero, and Sole24Ore. Recent publications include Maestri irregolari (2007, winner of the Premio De Lollis); Dizionario della critica militante (2007, with Giuseppe Leonelli), Uno sguardo sulla città (2010) and Meno letteratura, per favore (2010).Timothy Demetris (UCL) In the summer of 1472 Pope Sixtus IV launched a naval campaign against the Turks with Cardinal Oliviero Carafa as commander of the papal fleet. This military enterprise has received little attention from scholars. My paper will consider how it may not only inform us of Sixtus IV's early policy regarding the Turks but also provide context for his later engagement with Mehmed II's forces during the capture and liberation of Otranto in 1480-1481. I shall present a historical account of Cardinal Carafa's campaign using both modern and contemporary sources. I shall then examine the lives of those individuals involved and present the known portraits we have of them and visual representations of the campaign itself.Margaret Rose (University of Milan)Prof. Maggie Rose teaches British Theatre Studies at Milan State University. A writer, translator and dramaturge, she spends part of the year in the UK for her writing and research. She is a member of Playwrights Studio Scotland and the Scottish Association of Playwrights. Her stage and radio plays, reflecting her interest in issues of migration and multiculturalism as well as reworkings of Shakespeare, have been produced in the UK and Italy. Her stage translations have been performed in the UK, America and Italy. With Salvatore Cabras, she has co-translated Edward Bond’s Warplays, directed by Luca Ronconi and Alan Bennett’s The History Plays directed by Elio de Capitani e F.Bruni. Alice, an adaptation of Alice in Wonderland ran at Milan’s Piccolo Teatro in 2009 and 2010. She has co-created and co-directed festival-symposiums such as Scotsfest, Scambiare and Scottish Italian Connections and Identities. In her lecture, she will be considering various plays (Tally’s Blood, Six Months Here Six Months There, Shattered Head), documentaries (Dangerous Characters) and autobiographies, dealing with a crucial moment in history: June 1940, when Benito Mussolini declared war on Great Britain and France, and when many Italians living in the UK suddenly found themselves labelled as “enemy aliens”.Suzanne Stewart-Steinberg (Brown University) Prof. Stewart-Steinberg’s widely acclaimed study of modern Italian identity in the post-Unification period, The Pinocchio Effect: On Making Italians, 1860-1930(University of Chicago Press, 2007) was awarded the Aldo and Jeanne Scaglione Prize for Best Manuscript in Italian Studies by the Modern Language Association. This event was hosted jointly with the IHR Modern Italian History Seminar.Chiara Caprì, one of the founders of the Sicilian anti-extortion organizationAddiopizzo, will speak about her new book on Libero Grassi, the Palermo entrepreneur murdered for refusing to pay protection money.Enza de Francisci (UCL)This seminar compares Verga’s and Pirandello’s method of transposing a selection of short stories to the stage; questioning what happens when authorial intervention is withdrawn and the two writers rely on dialogue and assessing how the modifications introduced to the theatrical versions affect the portrayal of women. It will be suggested that although the female protagonists take a subsidiary position in the triangular relationship they are involved in, they nevertheless dominate both narrative and dramatic plots.Silvia Sfligiotti (Alizarina Studio – Milan)Annelys de Vet (Sandberg Institute Amsterdam)Annelies Vaneycken (Trans-ID Brussels)The seminar will feature a presentation by Silvia Sfligiotti of Alizarina Studio Milan on the role of the user in the design process – should designers work with, for or against the users? Annelys de Vet of the Sandberg Institute Amsterdam and Annelies Vaneycken of Trans-ID Brussels will also present on their recent works, in which visual communication is used as a tool to chart and highlight tensions and cleavages in culture and society. The seminar will end with an open round table discussion with the participation of Ken Garland and Richard Hollis.Elettra Carbone (UCL)For many Norwegians the Italian Risorgimento was seen as an inspiration, a symbol of freedom. Besides being a topical subject, especially in newspapers and magazines, the Risorgimento struggle was represented in literary works by famous Norwegian authors. How was this period of the Italian history represented before and after Norway’s independence in 1905?Simone Brioni (Warwick)The director and the writer Kaha Mohamed Aden will be present.Synopsis: Kaha Mohamed Aden narrates her memories of Mogadishu, her birth city, and reconstruct its story in Pavia, where she currently lives. The capital of Somalia is divided into five streets, which corresponds to different histoica periods. The fourth street symbolizes the actuality of civil war. This negates the preceding periods and makes it necessary to hope for the 'fifth street'. The film has English subtitles.Georgia Panteli (UCL)The seminar focuses on postmodern retellings of Pinocchio, and these include graphic  retellings as well as some examples of posthuman Pinocchios. In my talk I will explain how I connect Pinocchio to cyborgs, following the literary history of the animate/inanimate  archetype, of which Pinocchio is a vital part. I will also refer in more detail to the bande dessinée that won the Fauve d'Or prize in 2009, 'Pinocchio' by Winshluss. Maria Coduri (UCL) The aim of this seminar is to show different trends of acting and directing Shakespeare's plays in Italy from the performances of the "great actors" of mid-nineteenth century to the first stagings of the "teatro di regia" (director's theatre).Sebastiano Caroni (UCL) The aim of the presentation is threefold. Firstly, to situate Eco's relationship with structuralist method and approach as a formative moment in Eco's intellectual trajectory. Secondly, the presentation discusses Eco's ideas of interpretation against the background of Eco's critique of structuralism. Thirdly, it shows how Eco's ideas of interpretation can be the starting point to explore the intellectual norms and practices that sustain the ethic of academic work.Presented by author Yosefa Loshitzky (East London University)Yosefa Loshitzky challenges the utopian notion of a post-national "New Europe" by focusing on the waves of migrants and refugees that some view as a potential threat to European identity, a concern heightened by the rhetoric of the war on terror, the London Underground bombings, and the riots in Paris's banlieues. Opening a cinematic window onto this struggle, Loshitzky determines patterns in the representation and negotiation of European identity in several European films from the late 20th and early 21st centuries, including Bernardo Bertolucci's Besieged, Stephen Frears’s Dirty Pretty Things, Mathieu Kassovitz's La Haine, and Michael Winterbottom's In This World, Code 46, and The Road to Guantanamo.Fabio Camilletti (University of Warwick)The seminar will explore some of the methodological challenges emerged in the course of my research on the nineteenth-century metamorphoses of Dante’s Vita Nova. More specifically, by focusing on some re-elaborations of the episode of the 'woman at the window' – whose ambiguities make of it a veritable crux in Dantean philology - I will show how it is used as a frame in which the tensions of nineteenth-century desire are articulated.Evelyn Ferraro (Brown University)Migrants’ complex identities defy any rigid cultural classifications because of the liminal, or in-between, positions that migrant subjects inhabit. In this seminar, the spatial concept of being on the threshold will primarily be adopted to discuss contemporary literary and visual representations of the Italian migratory experience to North America vis-à-vis Italian national identity. In addition, the threshold will provide a theoretical tool to launch a preliminary reflection on Italy’s own liminality within the Mediterranean.Chris Adams (Estorick Collection of Modern Italian Art)Unlike Fauvism or Cubism, Futurism was not simply a painterly technique but a way of life. This paper considers if its holistic ambition was a distinctively Italian phenomenon - the movement emerging in the home of a world religion and the birthplace of modern totalitarianism - and if Futurism's continuation in the post-war period was motivated as much by the desire to counter a newfound cultural ‘agnosticism’ as by any aesthetic differences.Paolo Favero (Lisbon University Institute)Moving among historical material and contemporary debates on xenophobia and war, his seminar will explore the self-representation "Italiani Brava Gente", an image claiming the intrinsic goodness of the Italian people. Functioning as an ideological laundry for reformulating and then setting aside disquieting moments of national shame, "Italiani Brava gente" is central to the construction of  a modern Italian identity.Giuseppe A. Camerino (Università del Salento)Ampio panorama della caratteristiche dei maggiori scrittori triestini e giuliani tra l'Otto e il Novecento, tra attrazione della cultura viennese e austroungarica e richiamo della letteratura italiani nelo stesso periodo. Un'analisi che tocca i modi molto diversi e pur complementari con cui autori come Svevo, Saba, Slataper e Michelstaedter afrontano una complessa e irripetibile condizione di frontiera con tutti i connessi problemi linguistici, religiosi, filosofici e culturali in genere che una realtà del genere, per certi vesi altamente cosmopolita, richiedeva.Benedetta Tobagi (UCL) presentas her book: "Come mi batte forte il tuo cuore"Benedetta Tobagi presents her book dedicated to her father, Walter Tobagi, a "Corriere della Sera" journalist, murdered by leftist extremists in 1980.A film by Nick Mai (London Metropolitan University)followed by a discussion with the directorNORMAL is made of the combined interviews with four migrants (2 men, 2 women) working in the global sex industry, as agents and workers, respectively. The four characters explain how they came to see their involvement in the sex industry as NORMAL and how their notion of normality evolved with their life experiences. The film lasts 37 minutes.The actors were present.Federico Faloppa (University of Reading)Statistics say that Italy has become a multi-ethnic and multi-cultural contry. But the representation of migrants and ethnic groups in the Italian press has not changed much in the last 20 years, and derogatory labels and misreprsentations are far from being a relic of the past. Through the analysis of examples taken from newspapers and magazines, the paper will try to highlght a few linguistic elements - from lexicon to rhetoric - which seem to be part of an enduring strategy to construct and isolate 'otherness' linguistically. Laura Pariani (UCL)“Milano è una selva oscura”: La scrittura di Laura Pariani tra Dante e la tradizione lombarda.Fabio Cuzzola (Historian and Screenwriter) in conversation with John Dickie (UCL)Luciano Segreto (University of Florence)Giuliana Pieri (Royal Holloway University)David Forgacs (UCL)Ian Thomson (Royal Literary Fund Fellow, UCL)Guido Bonsaver (Oxford)Paola Nasti (University of Reading)“Narratives of Desire: biblical paradigms and vernacular actualizations”Heather Webb (Ohio State / CRASSH) “Dante's Cardiocentrism”Salvatore Lupo (University of Palermo) in conversation with John Dickie (UCL)Matteo Colombi (Leipzig) “Trieste: Everybody’s Colony?”Katia Pizzi (IGRS) “Trieste: A Dissident Port”Andrea Villarini (University of Siena)Sorry, this Silva Document is not viewable.  Research Seminars
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 As one of the world’s top universities, UCL
excels across the humanities and social sciences sciences. SELCS has
an outstanding reputation for its teaching and research, with students taught
by and researching alongside world-class academics.  Home to the UK’s first professors in Spanish,
French, German, Italian and Dutch, SELCS brings together eleven languages, many
different disciplines and a global approach to understanding languages and
culture from the medieval period to the present.  SELCS offers students valuable skills for
employment at a time when language skills are strongly sought after by employers. These include the
ability to speak, understand and write in a foreign language, intercultural
understanding, translation and communication skills, and analytical rigour. Find out more about our Undergraduate Programmes, including details on applications and our year abroad.We offer a range of inter-disciplinary Taught Masters Programmes. Find out more and apply now.Our Research covers a broad range of topics, including  cultural history, digital humanities, film, and gender.Affiliate students are able to choose from a range of courses covering literature, linguistics, history, sociology, philosophy, art, film and other aspects of the cultures associated with the languages taught in SELCS.SELCS offers some scholarships and bursaries to students for specific areas of study. Students can also apply for funding through UCL centrally, and via external bodies. The admissions process differs depending on your chosen level of study. Find out more about these processes and how you can express your interest to study with UCL. Modern Languages graduates are highly valued by employers for their linguistic and cultural knowledge, and for their set of 
transferable skills. Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 Depending on your chosen level of study, you will need to
follow one of the following pathways in order to submit an application 
to study with us. Applications for Undergraduate Programmes should be made through UCAS
 (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants 
currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the 
process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based 
outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS. Please ensure you’ve read the guidelines and entry requirements for 
the Programme you wish to apply for before submitting your application. 
You can return to the Undergraduate Programme page, if you wish to revisit the Programme overview and entry requirements.If you have any questions about applying for any of the undergraduate courses in the School of European Languages, Culture and Society please do get in touch with Jo Wolff, Admissions Officer.
 

   Apply for Undergraduate Study

 
 If you are applying for Graduate Taught or Graduate Research 
Programmes, you will submit your application directly to the central 
admissions team at UCL. Please ensure you have read the Programme 
guidelines and entry requirements before submitting your application. 
You can return to the Graduate Taught page if you wish to revisit the Programme overviews and entry requirements. Formal applications for Graduate Research Programmes are made via the
 central UCL admissions pages but you are advised to contact us with specific questions before making an application. For questions on research opportunities, please contact Professor Mairead Hanrahan, SELCS Research Director or Jo Wolff, Admissions Officer.
 

   Apply for Graduate Study

 
Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				SELCS welcomes students from colleges and universities around the world who wish to gain credit for modules (courses) taken at UCL in order to graduate from their home universities.Students from abroad who spend a period of study at UCL via an Erasmus+, Exchange or Junior Year Abroad (JYA) scheme, or following an independent application, are classed as 'Affiliate Students'. As an Affiliate student you will: •   Study alongside UCL and international students,
benefiting from UCL's world-class teaching system and renowned academics.•   Have the flexibility to take modules across a range of
UCL subjects and departments, tailoring your module to your own particular
interests in this area.•   Have access to your academic Personal Tutor (known as an
‘Affiliate Tutor’).•   Be encouraged to integrate into UCL student life, with
access to events, societies and clubs both within SELCS and across
UCL.•   Benefit from the prime London location and resources through the surrounding libraries, museums and institutes.The School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) is a UCL department comprising six language sub-departments: Dutch, French, German, Italian, Scandinavian Studies and Spanish, Portuguese & Latin American Studies. Affiliate students are able to choose from a range of modules covering literature, linguistics, history, sociology, philosophy, art, film and other aspects of the cultures associated with the languages taught in SELCS.While at UCL, Affiliates follow a programme of study to the same credit level as regular UCL students. This comprises 60 ECTS (32 US credits) in an academic session or 30 ECTS (16 US credits) if you are here only for semester 1 (term 1) or only for semester 2 (both term 2 and term 3 respectively).You may well find that during your studies at UCL you are expected to undertake significantly more individual and independent study outside of classes than you are used to. As a result, you may also have fewer classes per week than at your home institution. Attendance on all classes at UCL is compulsory.In SELCS we admit students in both September and January in three different categories:•   SELCS as first or only named home department:You must take 50% of your modules in SELCS. The other 50% may be taken in SELCS or in other UCL departments, subject to space and prerequisites. It is important to note that SELCS does not manage module registration outside of this department and cannot guarantee places in other UCL departments.•   SELCS as second named home department :You must take 50% of your modules in your first named department at UCL, and 25% within SELCS. The remaining 25% may be taken in other UCL departments (including SELCS and your first named department), subject to space and prerequisites, and any local regulations of your first named department.•   Affiliate students from other UCL departments:We welcome students from a wide variety of departments and disciplines across UCL to SELCS modules, subject to space and prerequisites. More information on our module registration process for non-SELCS students and relevant contact details can be found here.If you are looking to apply as an Erasmus or Exchange student, please check your university has an appropriate agreement in place with UCL SELCS. Before students apply, partner universities should submit their nominations to SELCS Study Abroad Officer via selcs.studyabroad@ucl.ac.uk.Applications should be e-mailed to the central UCL Admissions Office, via affiliatestudents@ucl.ac.uk. To check your application status or ask questions about the process (including visa queries), please e-mail the Admissions Office or call +44 (0) 20 3108 4400.We look forward to welcoming you at SELCS! 
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				MA students from Ecole Normale Supérieure (ENS) de Lyon in France and from Scuola Normale Superiore (SNS) di Pisa in Italy are welcome to study in SELCS via Erasmus+.All SELCS Affiliates take a minimum of 50% of their programme of study within SELCS. They may take the remaining 50% in any UCL department or programme, including SELCS, subject to the availability of places on modules (courses) and provided that they meet the prerequisites for modules that they wish to attend.Each UCL module has a code, which indicates which department or language sub-department runs it (e.g., SPANG***, SCANG***) and a title (e.g "Nomadic Literature"). Please note that graduate students (also called postgraduate/PG or Master/MA students) must choose graduate modules only. A combination of undergraduate and graduate modules is not permitted. Graduate modules are indicated by the 'G' following the departmental or language code, e.g. ITALG012, GERMG032. Each UCL module is assigned a weighting, measured in 'credits’. This weighting will either be 15 UCL credits or 30 UCL credits. These can be translated into ECTS as follows:•   15 UCL credits = 7.5 ECTS•   30 UCL credits = 15 ECTSFor queries relating to PG module registration in SELCS, please contact SELCS Postgraduate Officer.A full listing of available modules will be sent to accepted students. It will give you further details including summary of content, credit value, timetabling and assessment information.On arrival at UCL, students will be able to discuss their module choices with the academic and administrative staff in the departments where they intend to take modules.All module selections must be agreed with your home institution.Recommended ModulesSome Advanced ELCS modules (module codes ELCSG***) are available to graduate affiliates. Students follow the same classes as undergraduate students but in addition attend seminars run exclusively for them. They also take a different form of assessment from undergraduate students. All incoming affiliate students are expected to attend International Student Orientation Programme (ISOP), which is organised by central UCL International Student Support (ISS) team. The ISS team is dedicated to providing support to all non-UK students at UCL, including guidance on welfare and various practical matters. Please visit their website for pre-arrival advice and useful information about life in London and settling in at UCL. You may also contact the ISS team for further advice, via internationalsupport@ucl.ac.uk.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				•   Affiliate students starting in autumn are expected to arrive in London on Monday 17th September to attend International Student Orientation Programme (ISOP) which begins on 18th September in the morning.•   Affiliates starting in January are expected to arrive in London on Tuesday 2nd January to attend ISOP which will begin on 3rd January in the morning.•   Students arriving late should e-mail selcs.studyabroad@ucl.ac.uk and also refer to advice published here.To access UCL academic calendar, please click here. Please note that Orientation Programme begins 1 week before the official start of term.•   Semester 1 = autumn term (teaching and assessment) / slightly shorter than 3 months•   Semester 2 = spring term (teaching) + summer term (assessment) / 5 months in total•   SELCS Affiliates must take a minimum of 50% of their modules/credits in SELCS. They can take the remaining 50% in SELCS or in other UCL departments, subject to availability. SELCS cannot guarantee places outside of this department, therefore, students should be prepared for the possibility of taking all modules in SELCS.•   Students can take modules worth up to a maximum of 30 ECTS per semester / 16 US credits (for example, 4 modules worth 7.5 ECTS each).•   If approved by their home university, students can take a reduced number of credits (minimum 22.5 ECTS per semester).After arrival, students will be able to discuss their module choices with the SELCS Affiliates Tutor and with other academic and administrative staff in the departments where they intend to take modules, and to make changes if necessary. •   Erasmus students from partner universities in France, Italy and Spain must take the following translation module(s) for the duration of their study at SELCS (worth 7.5 ECTS per semester).•   Students who would not get any credits at their home university for their compulsory module(s) should report it to selcs.studyabroad@ucl.ac.uk before their arrival, so that they can be exempt from this requirement.• Translation into English I (FREN4005) Term 1• Translation into English II (FREN4006) Term 2These modules are also available as an option to other affiliates.• English Academic Writing and Translation Skills ITAL6002 - Full Year ITAL6004 - Term 1 only ITAL6001 - Term 2 onlyThese modules are available only to Italian native speakers.• Spanish Language III / Advanced Spanish Language for Affiliates (Translation from Spanish into English) SPAN4001A - Term 1 SPAN4001B - Term 2These modules are also available as an option but only to SELCS affiliates from Latin America.•   Modules in 2017-18: Click here for a list of  modules currently available to affiliate students.•   Modules in 2018-19: A list of available SELCS modules will be available in summer 2018.Each module description should say if the module is run in term 1 or term 2. For exact teaching times, please check the UCL Common Timetable (weeks 6-10/12-16 indicate term 1 and weeks 20-24/26-30 - term 2). Please see the following document for step-by-step instructions on how to check your timetable (PDF file).Some modules (for example, ELCS*) are taught in the form of one lecture for all students and a number of small-group seminars. Students must attend all lectures and one specific seminar group to which they will be allocated after they arrive in London. Please be aware of the possibility of module clashes and that all timetables might be subject to changes.SELCS Affiliates can take up to 50% of their modules/credits in other UCL departments, subject to availability and prerequisites for modules. More information about modules offered by other UCL departments can be found on their websites or via Study Abroad Guide.To help you navigate the many differing procedures in various UCL departments to register for modules, please refer to the Affiliate Registration Procedures 2017-18 (PDF file) which also provides contact details for each department. Please carefully read and follow their instructions.Please refer to additional information for module registration in these UCL departments:•   Arts & Sciences (BASc) - PDF file•   Hebrew & Jewish Studies - PDF file•   Psychology & Language SciencesPlease be aware of the possibility of timetable clashes with your SELCS modules and that all timetables might be subject to changes.Please see this page for Erasmus documentation queries.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				•   Learning Agreements should be e-mailed to SELCS via selcs.erasmus@ucl.ac.uk. Please note this mailbox is monitored only for submission of the incoming students' Erasmus documentation. For other queries, please e-mail Ania at selcs.studyabroad@ucl.ac.uk.•   If you are already in London, please bring your completed learning agreement to SELCS office and ask for Stafano, who will sign it on behalf of Ania. Stefano's current office hours are: Mondays & Wednesdays: 8:30am-12:30pm & 2pm-3:30pm and Tuesdays: 8:30am-12:30pm.•   If your agreement was prepared by your university and
 has different information than below, please inform them about our 
correct details, so that they can amend your 
agreement before you arrive:Please bring your Arrival / Departure forms to the UCL Student Centre (click here for opening hours). UCL Student Centre starts signing Arrival forms on 25th September (or 8th January for January starters). Affiliate students may request to have their forms signed retrospectively, with the Orientation Programme start date.•   If a student already left UCL, confirmation of attendance can be requested from UCL Student Centre via studentstatus@ucl.ac.uk.Although the UCL autumn term is less than 90 days, it should still be acceptable as a full academic term for the purpose of Erasmus mobility for studies. These rules are specified by individual national agencies in each country and application of this rule seems to vary, however, please note the following document in the link below which explains that minimum duration of a study period is 3 months, or 1 academic term or trimester (please see the small print for point 25 at the bottom of page 36). The above information was passed on to all our partner universities.If students are required by their home institution to spend at least 3 months (90 days) at UCL, we recommend that they apply for semester 2 instead, which consists of term 2 and term 3 respectively and lasts 5 months (from early January to early June). We currently do not complete any Transcripts of Records (Part 5 of Erasmus Learning Agreement 'After the Mobility') because these are replaced by final UCL transcripts.•   Autumn Term Students:Information will be updated soon. •   Full Year and Spring Semester Students:Exam results are usually released on Portico (online student records system) around mid July. After that, the central UCL Registry starts producing and sending out all transcripts, which should reach your home university (Erasmus Coordinator) by the end of August. If your transcript is not received by then, it should be reported to UCL Registry via transcripts@ucl.ac.uk.If a student requires an earlier transcript for their Master application, a request must come from their home university by e-mail to selcs.studyabroad@ucl.ac.uk. We will then be able to prepare an interim, provisional confirmation of results.Any student who has failed a module during the year will be offered a second and final attempt to resit in the summer late assessment period, which will take place in late August, with the results (and final UCL transcript) processed by mid-September. Late August assessment period is the same for all students (including affiliates who studied at UCL only in autumn term).Affiliate students will have to signal their intention to resit once the results are available. Students must request permission from their home university to be able to resit. To request a resit formally, a confirmation of approval must be e-mailed by the home university to selcs.studyabroad@ucl.ac.uk. 
                                      URL:
                                      https://www.ucl.ac.uk/silva/selcs/study/affiliates/undergraduate/jya-independent
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				IMPORTANT: • Modules may be subject to change.• Modules starting with codes: DUTC*, FREN*, GERM*, ITAL*, PORT*,  SCAN* and SPAN* might be subject to any module-specific prerequisites (such as language proficiency). Please check the descriptions.• Modules starting with codes: ELCS6* and LITC*, for which there are no prerequisites, are taught and assessed in English.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Students from other departments at UCL are welcome to request to take SELCS modules on the understanding that:•   They have permission from their home department at UCL to take a module within SELCS•   There is space on the module•   There are no timetable clashes with their other modules•   Students meet any prerequisites required by individual modules (please check module descriptions for more information)When allocating modules, we give priority to SELCS students and SELCS affiliates, therefore, we will aim to confirm whether you have secured your place on requested modules by the end of Induction week. We advise that you have reserve options in place in case it is not possible for us to allocate you to requested SELCS modules.If you need to request changes once teaching has started, please contact the relevant administrative staff (as listed above).To make module changes on Portico, please contact your main department.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Modern Languages graduates are highly valued by employers for their linguistic and cultural knowledge, and for their set of 
transferable skills. SELCS graduates go on to work in varied roles across the public, 
private and charitable sectors, as well as working as language consultants and teachers. Some of our recent graduates have been employed by the following organisations:SELCS students benefit from careers advice that is provided by the UCL Careers Service.
 The UCL Careers Service provide a range of services including: short or
 long 1-1 meetings to discuss career choices, reading CVs, conducting 
practice interviews or assessment centre techniques, and providing 
access to written guides on many career pathways.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Modern European Language Scholarships (MELS) were launched in 2014 and aim to attract the most outstanding language students to UCL. Five awards are made each year. Applicants must be:Awards consist of £5,000 per year for the duration of the scholar’s programme (to a maximum of four years). Renewal of the scholarship is subject to an average grade of 2:1 being achieved each year. The scholar will be given the option of whether to receive the award as maintenance or tuition fee funding (or a combination of the two).Once you have confirmed UCL as your ‘firm acceptance’ choice, through UCAS, on an eligible programme offered by the School of European Languages, Culture & Society or a language based programme offered by the School of Slavonic & Eastern European Studies, you will automatically be considered for a Modern European Language Scholarship. There are no additional documents required for the scholarships and there is no separate scholarship application form. Selection is primarily on the basis of academic merit – financial circumstances are not taken into account. Candidates will be required to demonstrate their commitment to UCL’s aims of global citizenship, cultural diversity, and a multi-disciplinary approach to their studies.Selection will be made by a joint panel of academics from SELCS and SSEES.The selection panel meets in early September and successful candidates can expect to be notified by mid-September. Awards will only be made to students who have registered to study at UCL. *NOTE: All scholarship and student funding schemes are subject to availability of funds, and details given here are subject to change at any time. Potential applicants are urged to check information regularly to ensure they are aware of current procedures, deadlines etc.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The information below applies to SELCS students of all departments (Dutch, French, German, Italian, Scandinavian Studies
and Spanish & Latin American Studies). SELCS is part of the AHRC consortium London Arts and
Humanities Partnership (LAHP), along with King’ College, London and the School of
Advanced Study.  More information of these awards, including how to apply can
be found on the LAHP website.NOTE: Applications for
joint-supervision between two of the partners of LAHP, whilst not necessary,
are particularly encouraged.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Our Research covers a broad range of topics, including  cultural history, digital humanities, film, and gender.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Applications should be submitted 
online. When doing so, remember to print off a copy of your online 
application for your own records.UCL offers conditional places to applicants who have not 
completed their undergraduate or MA degrees programmes. Candidates should inform 
the UCL Registry via the UCL Select Admissions Portal as soon as they 
know their results.   
Students can begin their research degrees at any time of year, so there 
are no deadlines for admission. It may take up to six weeks for applications to be processed. Overseas applicants must leave
 time to complete the formalities for clearance to enter the UK, which 
can take some time.Applicants intending to apply for scholarships will 
need to complete the application process before applying for 
scholarships.  Scholarship deadlines usually fall in early spring. For 
information consult the Funding tab. We recommend that candidates begin their degrees in 
September, where possible, as various funds (such as the AHRC) work to an 
academic calendar. Candidates for a research degree  normally need  an MA 
degree in an area of study appropriate to their research proposal, or 
else an equivalent qualification from overseas.   The minimum programme length for the MPhil and PhD degrees 
is two calendar years of full-time study or the equivalent in part-time 
study. Usually PhD degrees take at least three years full-time study or 
the equivalent in part-time study.The examination for both degrees is 
by thesis. The maximum word lengths of MPhil and PhD theses are 60,000 
and 100,000 words respectively. Please contact the Admissions Officer for advice about the application procedure and the progress of your application.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				All research projects using personal data must be registered with Legal Services before the data is collected. This includes projects approved by the Joint Research Office. Form 2 should be used to register most projects. For those approved by the Joint Research Office Form 9 should be used. Both forms can be downloaded from https://www.ucl.ac.uk/finance/legal/dp-foi-overview. They should be completed electronically and sent to data-protection@ucl.ac.uk with copies of any information sheets and consent forms that you are using.Projects using truly anonymised or aggregated information does not have to be registered with Legal Services and you do not have to worry about compliance with the Data Protection Act 1998. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				  SELCS and UCL offer several funding opportunities for research students. The SELCS funding panel will only consider your application for these scholarships if you have already completed the UCL procedure for admission as a postgraduate research student. This may take up to four weeks. Applicants should ensure that they leave time for referees to submit their references. Please note that funding applications from students who have not yet applied to UCL will not be considered.You may also wish to research the scholarships and awards available to the UCL-wide community on UCL's central Funding page.Applications and letters of recommendation for the GRS, ORS, CSC and  Wolfson Scholarships should be sent via email or post to Dr Julia Wagner in the SELCS post-graduate office. The deadline for 2018 entry is 5 January 2018. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				SELCS has some limited
funding to enable its Graduate Students to carry out their research and attend
conferences. Students wishing to apply for this funding should complete the
form available here and send it to the SELCS Research Director, Professor
Mairéad Hanrahan.Application Form:documents/pgr-fundsRegister your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The School regularly advertise teaching opportunities to its 
postgraduate research students during their second-, third-year of study and, if 
appropriate, during their ‘writing-up’ year. Only exceptionally are 
first-year research students asked to teach.Part-time students may 
begin teaching in their third year. Teaching can be of language or 
content courses; the SELCS Writing Lab also has positions for 
postgraduate research students. Positions are advertised as they arise via the Moodle handbook to all SELCS postgraduate students (irrespective of their 
departments).Advertisements usually ask students to submit a CV 
and cover letter and, if the applicant is shortlisted, to attend an interview.For further information contact J.Wagner@ucl.ac.uk. All PGTA vacancies within SELCS and other schools and departments of are advertised on the Faculty Intranet.
Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 Students currently enrolled on a PhD overseas can apply to study at UCL 
as a visiting research student to conduct Research here towards their 
PhD overseas. You can apply to spend 3 to 12 months at UCL undertaking 
research which is complementary to the Doctoral/PhD project at your 
'home' university.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
                                      URL:
                                      https://www.ucl.ac.uk/silva/selcs/study/graduate-research/www.ucl.ac.uk
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				We offer a range of inter-disciplinary Taught Masters Programmes. Find out more and apply now.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				You can find out all the information about current modules taught for the current academic year on our website. This will generally include information about the content, reading lists and academic contacts. This information is a guide only and may be subject to change without notice. If you have questions about a module please get in touch with the relevant contact.For undergraduate modules which start with codes DUTC* (Dutch), FREN* (French), GERM* (German), ITAL* (Italian), PORT* (Portuguese),  SCAN* (Scandinavian), SPAN* (Spanish), LITC* (Comparative Literature) and LCUL* (Language & Culture) please get in touch with the individual language department.Interdepartmental modules are those starting with codes ELCS* and if you have questions about these please get in touch with the SELCS Undergraduate Officers. For postgraduate modules, please visit our Graduate Taught courses page, select your pathway, and you will find the module information there. For help with these please contact SELCS PG Officer.-   Year 1 modules-   Year 2 modules-   Final Year modulesThe School’s ELCS (European Languages, Culture and Society) modules
introduce students to a broad comparative, interdisciplinary and intercultural
approaches to the humanities in modules which complement those followed in
language-specific departments.-   ELCS modulesStudents from other UCL departments (including non-SELCS affiliates) may request to take SELCS elective modules.-   How to request modules at SELCSCome and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Students from other departments at UCL are welcome to request to take SELCS modules on the understanding that:•   They have permission from their home department at UCL to take a module within SELCS•   There is space on the module•   There are no timetable clashes with their other modules•   Students meet any prerequisites required by individual modules (please check module descriptions for more information) When allocating modules, we give priority to SELCS students, therefore, we will aim to confirm whether you have secured your place on requested modules by the end of Induction week.  We advise that you have reserve options in place in case it 
is not possible for us to allocate you to requested SELCS modules.  If you need to request changes once teaching has started, please contact the relevant administrators (as listed above).To make module changes on Portico, please contact your main department.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on 
offer and talk to members of academic staff. These events can be 
extremely valuable in helping you make an informed choice about what to study. The Open Days offer a variety of activities, 
including admissions talks, general talks on topics such as 
accommodation, finance and careers. There are also accommodation tours, 
faculty and information fairs, taster sessions, and much more.  The Open Days for 2017 are now finished, but you can find watch videos from the SELCS Subject talks below.You can find out more information about Open Days and campus visits here:
 

   Read more and register to attend UCL Open Days

 
Staff will also be representing SELCS at UCL's postgraduate Open Day in the autumn (date to be confirmed).
 

   Read more and register to attend UCL Open Days

 
 Watch our films from one of UCL's undergraduate open days in June this year to get a feel for what happens on the day.  Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 The flexible programme allows students to enhance their 
knowledge of the language of their choice, while offering the 
opportunity to take courses in history, 
literature and culture. The MA may be taken over one year full-time or 
two years 
part-time via different language pathways. Overview of Modules 2017/18 (including ELCS Advanced and Portugese modules)SELCS staff also provide the teaching across a range of 
interdisciplinary programmes available in SELCS or centres within the 
Faculty of Arts and Humanities.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				September 2018Optional qualifications: This degree is also available as a PG Diploma and a PG Certificate with fees set accordingly.Location: London, BloomsburyA minimum of an upper second-class Bachelor's degree in a relevant discipline from a UK university or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedFurther information can be found on our English language requirements page.Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website.UCL Dutch is the largest Centre for Low Countries Studies in the Anglophone world. It was here that Dutch first attained the status of a serious academic discipline and a chair in Dutch has been occupied almost continuously since 1919. In both teaching and research the department is an internationally recognised centre for excellence.UCL Dutch has one of the largest Dutch libraries outside of the Low Countries and hosts an annual Writer-in-Residence as well as regular research seminars by visiting lecturers and professors from the Netherlands and Flanders, together with exchange students ensuring close contact between the department and the Dutch-speaking countries.UCL's central location offers students easy access to London's extraordinary resources, including the major collection of Dutch and Flemish Art in the National Gallery, the Courtauld Institute of Art, and the Warburg Institute, among many others. The cultural offerings of the Dutch Centre Austin Friars, Flanders House, and the Dutch and Belgian embassies and associations, and a wealth of exhibitions, films and theatrical performances are all nearby.Department: School of European Languages, Culture & SocietyThe Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture & Society80% rated 4* (‘world-leading’) or 3* (‘internationally excellent’)Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website. Under the Language, Culture and History MA, UCL Dutch offers a comprehensive and intensive module of interdisciplinary study in the history and culture of the Low Countries. It also provides training in subject-specific and generic research skills, geared towards preparation for doctoral research.All MA programmes should add up to 180 credits. They can be taken as Taught or Research-Intensive Pathways, details are given below.Modules for 2017/18You will take the core course (30 credits), the dissertation (60 credits) and 90 credits-worth of other modules, at least 60 credits of which must be chosen from the language-specific pathway.You will take the core course (30 credits), the dissertation (90 credits) and 60 credits-worth of modules from the language-specific pathway.Compulsory ModulesorDutch Module Options These MA modules are designed as an extension to an existing undergraduate course and students taking it will taught along with the undergraduates following that course. MA students following these modules will be provided with five extra 'dedicated' seminars covering material not featured in the undergraduate modules. The examination of these modules, and the assessment for them, are different from the examination and assessment of the undergraduate modules.Elective modules offered as part of the MA Language Culture and History programme may be withdrawn in the event of low uptake.Other Module OptionsWith the agreement of the Programme Director, students may combine their interests in Dutch Studies with other areas or subjects taught across the various MA programmes.  Students may choose from:Students are advised to apply as early as possible due to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding (particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application deadlines.The programme is unique in the UK. It is suitable for students with a first degree or equivalent with an interest in Dutch language, history, culture and society, or the impact Dutch had or continues to have in the world. Reading knowledge of Dutch is required, but this can also be improved as part of the programme.For more information see our Applications page.Apply nowWhen we assess your application we would like to learn:Together with essential academic requirements, the personal statement is your opportunity to illustrate whether your reasons for applying to this programme match what the programme will deliver.Degree last modified on 6 January 2017 at 11:58 by UCL Publications & Marketing Services. Please contact us for content updates.As labour market intelligence by the University Council for Modern Languages (2011) points out, Dutch is one of the five most requested languages in the UK job adverts, ahead of Russian and even Chinese! This is due to the close economic and cultural ties between the Netherlands, Flanders and the UK. Moreover, the report points out that even if your trading partners speak English well, it still pays to speak their language, having developed intercultural skills as taught by UCL Dutch.As graduates with Dutch are rare this makes for a very vibrant employment situation, even in times of economic crisis. There is demand for graduates who can help overcome the shortage of teachers of Dutch and translators from Dutch into English. The demand for teachers is from adult education institutes and increasingly from higher and secondary education; in the case of translators it comes from Dutch, Belgian and European institutions, from translation agencies and from business.The programme, unique to the UK, will be of interest both to those who wish to enhance their knowledge of Dutch culture for professional purposes – in the field, for example, of education, media, commerce and tourism – as well as to students wishing to pursue their studies to a doctoral level.Degree last modified on 6 January 2017 at 11:58 by UCL Publications & Marketing Services. Please contact us for content updates.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.Tuition fees (2018/19)UK/EU:    £10,140 (FT) £5,120 (PT)Overseas:    £21,160 (FT) £10,740 (PT)  Download BrochureRegister interest in your chosen subjects. Receive notice of graduate open days, events and more.Register your interest
                                      URL:
                                      https://www.ucl.ac.uk/silva/selcs/study/postgraduate-taught/language-culture-history-ma/language-culture-history-dutch-studies/tel%3A+44%20%280%2920%207679%203096
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				September 2018Optional qualifications: This degree is also available as a PG Diploma and a PG Certificate with fees set accordingly.Location: London, BloomsburyA minimum of an upper second-class Bachelor's degree involving specialisation in French from a UK university or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard. Applications from students who do not have formal qualifications in French, but who are competent in the language, will be considered.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedFurther information can be found on our English language requirements page.Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website.UCL has a renowned tradition in both teaching and research in French, dating back to its foundation in 1826 and continuing to the present day. UCL is at the leading-edge of current debate in French, which involves challenging the boundaries of French studies and contributing to its remapping. Students are taught by nationally and internationally renowned experts in their fields.There is a thriving research culture in the school: students can attend and participate in an extensive programme of seminars. Students also have access to conferences held at the Institute of Modern Language Research and are welcome to participate in its graduate forum.The department has excellent research facilities, including an extensive library of films on DVD.Department: School of European Languages, Culture & SocietyThe Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture & Society80% rated 4* (‘world-leading’) or 3* (‘internationally excellent’)Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.We welcome applications from students with a good BA in French (or related subject) for either mode of study. While it is expected that applicants will have a high level of proficiency in French, in some cases we will consider applicants without advanced level French-language qualifications who have gained equivalent skills and competence by other means.The programme encourages innovative approaches to issues in French and Francophone studies, as well as to sharpen the creative critical responses of students. All MA programmes should add up to 180 credits. They can be taken as Taught or Research-Intensive Pathways, details are given below.Modules 2017/18You will take the core course (30 credits), the dissertation (60 credits) and 90 credits-worth of other modules, at least 60 credits of which must be chosen from the language-specific pathway.You will take the core course (30 credits), the dissertation (90 credits) and 60 credits-worth of modules from the language-specific pathway.Compulsory ModulesorFrench Module Options Elective/optional modules offered as part of the MA Language Culture and History programme may be withdrawn in the event of low uptake.Other Module OptionsWith the agreement of the Programme Director, students may combine their interests in French and Francophone Studies with other areas or subjects taught across the various MA programmes. Students may choose from:Students are advised to apply as early as possible due to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding (particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application deadlines.The programme will appeal to students wishing to extend their knowledge in this field and/or preparing for future PhD work. Although aimed at students with a first degree in French, students without French reading skills will be considered. Most of the set texts are available in English translation, and can be used for assessments.For more information see our Applications page.Apply nowWhen we assess your application we would like to learn:Together with essential academic requirements, the personal statement is your opportunity to illustrate whether your reasons for applying to this programme match what the programme will deliver.Degree last modified on 6 January 2017 at 11:58 by UCL Publications & Marketing Services. Please contact us for content updates.The programme provides an excellent foundation for further doctoral study in the field. Graduates of the department have entered a wide range of professions including finance, commerce, journalism, education, the media, public relations, translation and interpreting, and the police.Careers data is taken from the ‘Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education’ survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2012–2014 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.Degree last modified on 6 January 2017 at 11:58 by UCL Publications & Marketing Services. Please contact us for content updates.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.Tuition fees (2018/19)UK/EU:    £10,140 (FT) £5,120 (PT)Overseas:    £21,160 (FT) £10,740 (PT) Degree last modified on 6 January 2017 at 11:58 by UCL Publications & Marketing Services. Please contact us for content updates.Download BrochureRegister interest in your chosen subjects. Receive notice of graduate open days, events and more.Register your interest
                                      URL:
                                      https://www.ucl.ac.uk/silva/selcs/study/postgraduate-taught/language-culture-history-ma/language-culture-history-french-francophone-studies/tel%3A+44%20%280%2920%207679%203096
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				September 2018Optional qualifications: This degree is also available as a PG Diploma and a PG Certificate with fees set accordingly.Location: London, BloomsburyA minimum of an upper second-class Bachelor's degree in a relevant discipline from a UK university or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedFurther information can be found on our English language requirements page.Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website.UCL German is recognised in the UK and overseas as a premier department for the study of German culture, history and language. In the RAE 2008, UCL German was tied for first place in percentage of research judged to be 'world leading' and received the second highest rating overall.UCL's central location offers students easy access to excellent resources, including the British Library, the Institute for Germanic Studies, the German Historical Institute and the Institute of Historical Research.The cultural offerings of the Goethe-Institut, the Austrian Institute, and a wealth of exhibitions, films and theatrical performances are all nearby.Student / staff ratios › 52 staff including 1 postdocs › 30 taught students › 52 research studentsDepartment: School of European Languages, Culture & SocietyStudent / staff ratios › 52 staff including 1 postdocs › 30 taught students › 52 research studentsThe Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture & Society80% rated 4* (‘world-leading’) or 3* (‘internationally excellent’)Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.This MA aims to offer students an opportunity to explore a range of aspects of German history. It seeks to build on UCL's existing strengths and interests in this area and to foster students' specialised knowledge of the field, with a view to further research or as a qualification in its own right.All MA programmes should add up to 180 credits. They
 can be taken as Taught or Research-Intensive Pathways, details are 
given below.You will take the core course (30 credits), the dissertation (60 
credits) and 90 credits-worth of other modules, at least 60 credits of 
which must be chosen from the language-specific pathway.You will take the core course (30 credits), the dissertation (90 
credits) and 60 credits-worth of other modules from the language-specific pathway.Compulsory Modules orMain Module OptionsModules can be chosen from any of the European Studies MA programmes and German Department.Other Modules With the agreement of the Programme Director, students may combine their interests in German History with other areas or subjects taught across the various MA programmes. Students may choose from:  Students are advised to apply as early as possible due to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding (particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application deadlines.The programme is particularly suitable for students with a first degree in German, history, European studies or other relevant humanities or social science subjects, who wish to develop specialised knowledge of the field, with a view to further research or as a qualification in its own right.Each candidate is required to obtain recommendations from two referees. Candidates seeking AHRC funding should note that applications to the department should be made not less than a month before the AHRC deadline of 1 May.For more information see our Applications page.Apply nowWhen we assess your application we would like to learn:Together with essential academic requirements, the personal statement is your opportunity to illustrate whether your reasons for applying to this programme match what the programme will deliver.The degree offers a graduate qualification in its own right, as well as serving as a pathway towards doctoral research in the field of German and European history. Many students progress from one of our MA programmes to an MPhil or PhD research degree. First destinations of recent graduates include:With their specialist knowledge and language skills, German Master's graduates can be found in business, finance, the media, international agencies, teaching and academia.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.Tuition fees (2018/19)UK/EU:    £10,140 (FT) £5,120 (PT)Overseas:    £21,160 (FT) £10,740 (PT) Degree last modified on 6 January 2017 at 11:58 by UCL Publications & Marketing Services. Please contact us for content updates.Download BrochureRegister interest in your chosen subjects. Receive notice of graduate open days, events and more.Register your interest
                                      URL:
                                      https://www.ucl.ac.uk/silva/language-culture-history-german-studies
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
                                      URL:
                                      https://www.ucl.ac.uk/silva/selcs/study/postgraduate-taught/language-culture-history-ma/language-culture-history-german-history/tel%3A+44%20%280%2920%207679%203096
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				September 2018Optional qualifications: This degree is also available as a PG Diploma and a PG Certificate with fees set accordingly.Location: London, BloomsburyA minimum of an upper second-class Bachelor's degree in a relevant discipline from a UK university or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedFurther information can be found on our English language requirements page.Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website.UCL German is recognised in the UK and overseas as a premier department for the study of German culture, history and language. In the RAE 2008, UCL German was tied for first place in percentage of research judged to be 'world leading' and received the second highest rating overall.UCL's central location offers students easy access to excellent resources, including the British Library, the Institute for Germanic Studies, the German Historical Institute and the Institute of Historical Research. The cultural offerings of the Goethe Institut, the Austrian Institute, and a wealth of exhibitions, films and theatrical performances are all nearby.Department: School of European Languages, Culture & SocietyThe Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture & Society80% rated 4* (‘world-leading’) or 3* (‘internationally excellent’)Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.This interdisciplinary MA aims to offer students from a variety of intellectual backgrounds the opportunity to explore a wide range of aspects of German culture, thought and history.It seeks to build on the German Department's existing strengths and interests and to foster interdisciplinary research in the area of German Studies. It also provides students with an excellent foundation in most elements of German Studies at an advanced level.Applications are welcome from students with a broad interest in matters German, who have a first or good second-class honours degree (or the equivalent from non-UK institutions) in German, European Studies, history, politics and sociology, and related fields, and a knowledge of German at least equivalent to A-level standard. The degree programme may be taken over one year full-time or two years part-time.All MA programmes should add up to 180 credits. They can be taken as Taught or Research-Intensive Pathways, details are given below.You will take the core course (30 credits), the dissertation (60 credits) and 90 credits-worth of other modules, at least 60 credits of which must be chosen from the language-specific pathway.You will take the core course (30 credits), the dissertation (90 credits) and 60 credits-worth of other modules from the language-specific pathway.Compulsory Modules orGerman Module Options These MA modules are designed as an extension to an existing undergraduate course and students taking it will taught along with the undergraduates following that course. MA students following these modules will be provided with five extra 'dedicated' seminars covering material not featured in the undergraduate modules. The examination of these modules, and the assessment for them, are different from the examination and assessment of the undergraduate modules.Elective modules offered as part of the MA Language Culture and History programme may be withdrawn in the event of low uptake.Modules 2017/18Other Optional Modules With the agreement of the Programme Director, students may combine their interests in German Studies with other areas or subjects taught across the various MA programmes. Students may choose from:Students are advised to apply as early as possible due to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding (particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application deadlines.This programme is particularly suitable for students with a first degree in German, European studies, history, politics or sociology who wish to strengthen their knowledge of German culture and history; either as a foundation for subsequent doctoral research or as a graduate qualification in its own right.Each candidate is required to obtain recommendations from two referees. Candidates seeking AHRC funding should note that applications to the department should be made not less than a month before the AHRC deadline of 1 May.For more information see our Applications page.Apply nowWhen we assess your application we would like to learn:Together with essential academic requirements, the personal statement is your opportunity to illustrate whether your reasons for applying to this programme match what the programme will deliver.The MA provides an excellent foundation year for subsequent doctoral research in all areas of the department's research specialisms. Many students progress from one of our MA programmes to an MPhil or PhD research degree.First destinations of recent graduates include:With their specialist knowledge and language skills, German Master's graduates can be found in business, finance, the media, international agencies, teaching and academia.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.Tuition fees (2018/19)UK/EU:    £10,140 (FT) £5,120 (PT)Overseas:    £21,160 (FT) £10,740 (PT) The Modern European Language Scholarships (MELS) were launched in 2014 and aim to attract the most outstanding language students to UCL. Five awards are made each year. Applicants must be:Awards consist of £5,000 per year for the duration of the scholar’s programme (to a maximum of four years). Renewal of the scholarship is subject to an average grade of 2:1 being achieved each year. The scholar will be given the option of whether to receive the award as maintenance or tuition fee funding (or a combination of the two).Once you have confirmed UCL as your ‘firm acceptance’ choice, through UCAS, on an eligible programme offered by the School of European Languages, Culture & Society or a language based programme offered by the School of Slavonic & Eastern European Studies, you will automatically be considered for a Modern European Language Scholarship. There are no additional documents required for the scholarships and there is no separate scholarship application form. Selection is primarily on the basis of academic merit – financial circumstances are not taken into account. Candidates will be required to demonstrate their commitment to UCL’s aims of global citizenship, cultural diversity, and a multi-disciplinary approach to their studies.Selection will be made by a joint panel of academics from SELCS and SSEES.The selection panel meets in early September and successful candidates can expect to be notified by mid-September. Awards will only be made to students who have registered to study at UCL. *NOTE: All scholarship and student funding schemes are subject to availability of funds, and details given here are subject to change at any time. Potential applicants are urged to check information regularly to ensure they are aware of current procedures, deadlines etc.Degree last modified on 6 January 2017 at 11:58 by UCL Publications & Marketing Services. Please contact us for content updates.Download BrochureRegister interest in your chosen subjects. Receive notice of graduate open days, events and more.Register your interest
                                      URL:
                                      https://www.ucl.ac.uk/silva/language-culture-history-german-studies
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
                                      URL:
                                      https://www.ucl.ac.uk/silva/selcs/study/postgraduate-taught/language-culture-history-ma/language-culture-history-german-studies/tel%3A+44%20%280%2920%207679%203096
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				September 2018Optional qualifications: This degree is also available as a PG Diploma and a PG Certificate with fees set accordingly.Location: London, BloomsburyA minimum of an upper second-class Bachelor's degree in a relevant discipline from a UK university or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard. A knowledge of Spanish at least equivalent to UK A level standard is required. Applications from students who do not have formal qualifications in Spanish but who are competent in the language, will be considered.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedFurther information can be found on our English language requirements page.Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website.UCL Spanish & Latin American Studies features staff who are nationally and internationally renowned experts in the field, who publish in their specialist areas and are active researchers. The department regularly hosts a number of events including conferences, research seminars, symposia and a documentary film course in Cuba.Our location in London provides access to numerous cultural and social events relating to the Spanish-speaking world, its literature, films, history and politics. We encourage active participation in the events of the Instituto Cervantes and the Institute for the Study of the Americas, both of which provide access to excellent resources to enhance your studies.Department: School of European Languages, Culture & SocietyThe Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture & Society80% rated 4* (‘world-leading’) or 3* (‘internationally excellent’)Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website. This programme option offers a wide-ranging and flexible module for graduates, both of Spanish and Latin American studies and related subjects, wishing to develop their interest in the cultures of the Hispanic world at an advanced level. The programme will appeal to those who wish to enhance their knowledge of the Hispanic world for professional purposes – in the fields of education, culture, media and tourism, for example - as well as to students wishing to pursue their studies to doctoral level.  We welcome applications from students with a good BA in Hispanic Studies (or related subject) for either mode of study. While it is expected that applicants will have a high level of proficiency in Spanish, in some cases we will consider applicants without advanced level Spanish-language qualifications who have gained equivalent skills and competence by other means.  All MA programmes should add up to 180 credits. They can be taken as Taught or Research-Intensive Pathways, details are given below. You will take the core course ELCSGG01 (30 credits), the dissertation ELCSG099 (60 credits) and 90 credits-worth of optional modules, at least 60 credits of which must be chosen from the language-specific pathway. You will take the core course ELCSGG01 (30 credits), the dissertation ELCSG098 (90 credits) and 60 credits-worth of optional modules from the language-specific pathway.Modules 2017/18  Compulsory Modules or Module Options  Elective/optional modules offered as part of the MA Language Culture and History programme may be withdrawn in the event of low uptake. Other Module OptionsWith the agreement of the Programme Director, students may combine their interests in Hispanic Studies with other areas or subjects taught across the various MA programmes. Students may choose from: Students are advised to apply as early as possible due to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding (particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application deadlines.The programme will be of interest both to those who wish to enhance their knowledge of the Hispanic world for professional purposes - in the fields of education, culture, media and tourism, for example - as well as students who are considering pursuing their studies to doctoral level.For more information see our Applications page.Apply nowWhen we assess your application we would like to learn:Together with essential academic requirements, the personal statement is your opportunity to illustrate whether your reasons for applying to this programme match what the programme will deliver.This programme may lead to further research, or to employment in which a broad familiarity with Spanish and Latin American culture is an asset.First destinations of recent graduates of the programme include: The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.Tuition fees (2018/19)UK/EU:    £10,140 (FT) £5,120 (PT)Overseas:    £21,160 (FT) £10,740 (PT)   Degree last modified on 6 January 2017 at 11:58 by UCL Publications & Marketing Services. Please contact us for content updates.Download BrochureRegister interest in your chosen subjects. Receive notice of graduate open days, events and more.Register your interest
                                      URL:
                                      https://www.ucl.ac.uk/silva/selcs/study/postgraduate-taught/language-culture-history-ma/language-culture-history-hispanic-studies/tel%3A+44%20%280%2920%207679%203096
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				September 2018Optional qualifications: This degree is also available as a PG Diploma and a PG Certificate with fees set accordingly.Location: London, BloomsburyA minimum of an upper second-class Bachelor's degree in a relevant discipline from a UK university or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedFurther information can be found on our English language requirements page.Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website.UCL Italian is the original home of Italian studies in Britain, and has a distinguished record in the field of graduate studies and research. Students benefit from UCL's excellent Italian resources, including the Rotton and Ogden collections, and the Castiglione and Dante collections.UCL's central location enables easy access to London's exceptional resources including the specialist collections of Italian material in the Warburg and Courtauld Institutes. The British Film Institute Library holds major Italian film periodicals and numerous books on Italian cinema, and the nearby British Library houses the largest collection of early printed books in the world.Department: School of European Languages, Culture & SocietyThe Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture & Society80% rated 4* (‘world-leading’) or 3* (‘internationally excellent’)Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.This MA programme is designed both for students who intend to take a research degree (MPhil or PhD) and for those who wish to further their interest in aspects of Italian literature, language and history.  The MA degree can also serve as a 'conversion' degree, enabling students with first degrees in disciplines other than Italian to move onto a research degree in Italian. All MA programmes should add up to 180 credits. They can be taken as Taught or Research-Intensive Pathways, details are given below.You will take the core course (30 credits), the dissertation (60 credits) and 90 credits-worth of other modules, at least 60 credits of which must be chosen from the language-specific pathway.You will take the core course (30 credits), the dissertation (90 credits) and 60 credits-worth of other modules, at least 60 credits of which must be chosen from the language-specific pathway.Compulsory Modules orItalian Module Options Elective/optional modules offeredas part of the MA Language Culture and History programme may be withdrawn in the event of low uptake.Modules 2017-18Other Module Options With the agreement of the Programme Director, students may combine their interests in Italian Studies with other areas or subjects taught across the various MA programmes. Students may choose from:Students are advised to apply as early as possible due to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding (particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application deadlines.The programme is designed for students wishing to further their interest in Italian literature, language and history, and for those intending to proceed on to doctoral research. It can also serve as a conversion degree, enabling students with first degrees in other disciplines to move onto a research degree in this field.Applicants intending to apply for scholarships will, however, need to complete the application process before applying for a scholarship. Scholarship deadlines usually fall in early spring.For more information see our Applications page.Apply nowWhen we assess your application we would like to learn:Together with essential academic requirements, the personal statement is your opportunity to illustrate whether your reasons for applying to this programme match what the programme will deliver.The programme will be of interest both to those who wish to enhance their knowledge of Italian culture for professional purposes - in the fields, for example, of education, media, commerce and tourism - as well as to students wishing to pursue their studies to a doctoral level.Recent first destinations of MA graduates from the department of Italian at UCL include: The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2018/19 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2019 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.Tuition fees (2018/19)UK/EU:    £10,140 (FT) £5,120 (PT)Overseas:    £21,160 (FT) £10,740 (PT) Degree last modified on 6 January 2017 at 11:58 by UCL Publications & Marketing Services. Please contact us for content updates.Download BrochureRegister interest in your chosen subjects. Receive notice of graduate open days, events and more.Register your interest
                                      URL:
                                      https://www.ucl.ac.uk/silva/language-culture-history-german-studies
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
                                      URL:
                                      https://www.ucl.ac.uk/silva/language-culture-history-german-studies
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
                                      URL:
                                      https://www.ucl.ac.uk/silva/selcs/study/postgraduate-taught/language-culture-history-ma/language-culture-history-italian-studies/tel%3A+44%20%280%2920%207679%203096
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				September 2018Optional qualifications: This degree is also available as a PG Diploma and a PG Certificate with fees set accordingly.Location: London, BloomsburyA minimum of an upper second-class Bachelor's degree in a relevant discipline from a UK university or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard in a relevant discipline.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedFurther information can be found on our English language requirements page.Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website.UCL Scandinavian Studies is the largest independent Scandinavian department in the UK. Our research and teaching encompasses the languages, literatures, cultures, histories and politics of the entire Nordic region, ranging from the Viking Middle Ages to the present day.Facilities are excellent: UCL boasts possibly the best Scandinavian Studies library outside Scandinavia, and students also have the outstanding collections of the British Library close at hand. Excellent links with universities in mainland Scandinavia, Iceland and Finland provide further benefits.The department is home to the Viking Society for Northern Research, a leading publisher of Old Norse texts and monographs on medieval Scandinavia.Department: School of European Languages, Culture & SocietyThe Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: School of European Languages, Culture & Society80% rated 4* (‘world-leading’) or 3* (‘internationally excellent’)Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.The Scandinavian Studies MA option offers an intellectually exciting and flexible range of options focusing on Nordic culture in a global context. No prior knowledge of a Nordic language is required, though students can opt to consolidate their language or translation skills, or to start Danish, Finnish, Icelandic, Norwegian, or Swedish from scratch.The MA can serve as a stepping stone between undergraduate studies and PhD research for students specialising in Nordic Studies. It is also ideal as a one-year professional development opportunity for those working in a field in which knowledge of Scandinavian culture is important: for example, design, publishing, politics, or commerce.Assessed modules are supplemented with workshops and a summer school providing opportunities for networking and career development in publishing, translation, filmmaking, and the heritage and creative sectors.All MA programmes should add up to 180 credits. They can be taken as Taught or Research-Intensive Pathways, details are given below.Modules 2017/18You will take the core course (30 credits), the dissertation (60 credits) and 90 credits-worth of other modules, at least 60 credits of which must be chosen from the language-specific pathway.You will take the core course (30 credits), the dissertation (90 credits) and 60 credits-worth of other modules, at least 60 credits of which must be chosen from the language-specific pathway.Compulsory Module OptionsorScandinavian Module Options These MA modules are designed as an extension to an existing undergraduate course and students taking it will taught along with the undergraduates following that course. MA students following these modules will be provided with five extra 'dedicated' seminars covering material not featured in the undergraduate modules. The examination of these modules, and the assessment for them, are different from the examination and assessment of the undergraduate modules.Elective modules offered as part of the MA Language Culture and History programme may be withdrawn in the event of low uptake.Other Module Options With the agreement of the Programme Director, students may combine their interests in Scandinavian Studies with other areas or subjects taught across the various MA programmes. Students may choose from:Students are advised to apply as early as possible due to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding (particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application deadlines.This MA can serve as a stepping stone between undergraduate studies and PhD research for students specialising in Nordic Studies. It is also ideal as a one-year professional development opportunity for those working in a field in which knowledge of Scandinavian culture is important: for example, design, publishing, politics or commerce.If you are planning to apply for funding from the Arts and Humanities Research Council, you need to submit your application for the degree programme no later than 1 February for the year of entry. Applicants intending to apply for funding from UCL Doctoral School also need to submit their application for the degree programme in good time.For more information see our Applications page.Apply nowWhen we assess your application we would like to learn:Together with essential academic requirements, the personal statement is your opportunity to illustrate whether your reasons for applying to this programme match what the programme will deliver.An MA in Scandinavian Studies offers prospects for employment in the private as well as in the public sector, whether in Scandinavia or in the English-speaking world. Former graduate students in the department are to be found in a range of challenging careers, which include work in IT and management, museums and university teaching.In the UK and abroad, the Nordic countries are increasingly recognised for the success of their political and social model, and for their film, literature, food and design. Our MA graduates bring their deep understanding of Scandinavian culture to careers in which knowledge of the region is key: publishing, the arts, commerce and information management. Expertise in Nordic languages is rare in the UK, and employer demand is accordingly high. Our MA allows students to hone their Nordic language skills or to try a new language. Many of our graduates launch careers with translation companies and as freelancers.Degree last modified on 6 January 2017 at 11:58 by UCL Publications & Marketing Services. Please contact us for content updates.Download BrochureRegister interest in your chosen subjects. Receive notice of graduate open days, events and more.Register your interestYour browser sent a request that this server could not understand.
Your browser sent a request that this server could not understand.

                                      URL:
                                      https://www.ucl.ac.uk/silva/selcs/study/postgraduate-taught/language-culture-history-ma/language-culture-history-scandinavian-studies/tel%3A+44%20%280%2920%207679%203096
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				2017-2018Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				ELCSGG01 - Language, Culture and HistoryELCSG099 - Dissertation taught pathway (60 credits)ELCSG098 - Dissertation research pathway (90 credits)DUTCG007 - Contemporary History, Society and Culture of the Low CountriesDUTCG903 - Project in DutchDUTCG401 - Dutch Language 3DUTCG504 - Advanced Translation from Dutch to EnglishDUTCG202 - Making Modern Dutch LiteratureFRENGT01 - Advanced Translation FRENGT03 - Translation into French (Advanced)FRENGF03 - The French New Wave (Cahier Cinema) FRENG105 - Dominating Texts: Literary Power Relations in 20th Century French LiteratureFRENG051 - Discourses of EqualityFRENG115 - Legendary Histories (Medieval French Literature)FRENG030 - Culture of AIDS in France: History, Policy and RepresentationFRENG036 - Writing the Self in Post-war France: Aspects of Life-Writing GERMG008 - Wolfram's Parzival GERMG012 - Austrian Literature IGERMG016 - Recording Revolt: 1967 in Germany and AfterGERMG023 - Modern German Art: A Cultural HistoryGERMG028 - Reading Modern NovelsGERMG030 - Language, Power, Ideology GERMG032 - Translation from and into GermanGERMG033 - Discussion and EssayGERMG055 - German Literature and PsychologyGERMG144 - Black GermanyGERMG145 - SurveillanceGERMG146 - EmpathySPANG011A - The Latin American Cinematic TraditionSPANG013A/SPANG028 - Sex and the Body in Early Modern Europe SPANG019 - Advanced Translation from and into Spanish SPANG031 - The City in Latin American CultureSPANGF02 - New Argentine CinemasSPANG408 - The Battle for Memory in Contemporary Spanish Novel: Part 1, The Transition to DemocracySPANG115 - The Literary World of Jorge Luis Borges Part 2 SPANG117 - The Works of Cervantes Part ISPANG415 - Reading and Writing Spanish Microfiction PORTG001 - Advanced Translation from and into PortuguesePORTG420 - Portugal and its Empire in the 20th Century: Trajectories and MemoriesPORTG421 - Short Fiction and the Making of Modern BrazilITALG019 - Advanced Translation from and into Italian FILMG012 - Genre in Italian CinemaITALG026 - Marriage & Divorce Italian Style (1861-1975)ITALG027 - Identity and Perfromance in Renaissance Italy ITALG909 - Italian Contemporary NovelITALG102 - Nation, Culture and Society in Italy (1860-1915)SCANG001 - Advanced Translation (Scandinavian into English)SCANG013 - Introduction to Old NorseSCANG014 - Crime and Small Communities in Nordic Literature SCANGF05 - Nordic Cinema: Contextualising Dreyer, Bergman and Dogme 95SCANGM15 - Advanced Old NorseSCANG310 - Politics and Society in the Nordic Region  ELCSG004 - Metamorphosis: The Limits of the Human ELCSG005 - Organised Crime: Gangster in Life and ArtELCSG012 - Sequential Art as a Form of Engagement ELCSG013 - Language and IdeologyELCSG018 - Writing ShameELCSG023 - Men on the Moon: Cosmic Voyages in the Early Modern PeriodELCSG030 - Black EuropeRegister your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 creditsTutor: Dr Cristina MassaccesiTeaching structure: Teaching will take the form of practical translation and of written commentary on the problems of translation encountered. Assessment: One take-home paper (100%).Module Description:This module will focus on the specific skills of translating texts from 
and into Italian. During the module, the students will have the chance 
to work on various kinds of material, such as literary, cinematographic 
(i.e. subtitles and dubbing) and journalistic texts. The module will 
target the development of skills both in critical reading and in 
interpretation, and it will promote an advanced understanding of the 
translation process. Whilst the emphasis will be on the practical 
aspects of translating and adapting a text, students will also be 
acquiring a basic understanding of theories of translation as well as 
the technical vocabulary appropriate to the area.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:
The study material will be provided to the students via Moodle.
    Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Code: SPANG013AValue: 30 credits versionAssessment: 6,000 word essay (100%)Code: SPANG028Value: 15 credits versionAssessment: 4,000 word essay (100%)Tutor: Dr Alexander SamsonTerm: Term 1Teaching structureModule Description:This module will introduce topics in the history of 
sexuality and analyse the emergence of subjectivity in the early modern 
period through a range of literary, historical and dramatic texts, as 
well as painting. Within a theoretical framework drawing on Lacqueur, 
Bahktin, Greenblatt, Foucault and Barker we will examine areas from 
prostitution, gender, witchcraft, exorcism, and madness to issues 
concerned with the representation of the self and body in love, sickness
 and death.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:In the first instance you should look at a selection of the
 material for the first two sessions on 'Theoretical Concepts in the 
History of Sexuality', perhaps reading extracts from Bahktin, Foucault, 
Laqueur or Maclean, then read Rojas' La Celestina in an edition by Severin either in Spanish or Mabbe's translation. Please note: This
module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may
be made prior to the start of the academic year.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Code: SPANG019Value: 30 creditsCourse Convenor: Dr Mazal OakninTutors: Dr Mazal Oaknin, Dr Guadalupe GerardiTeaching structure: Workshops and seminarsAssessment: Students are assessed by 
coursework (50%) and an unseen 3-hour desk exam (50%). The coursework 
consists of a translation and commentary of a literary, cultural or 
historical text (5,000 words). Module Description:
The MA module in Advanced Translation from and into Spanish
 consists of practical translation exercises covering a wide range 
of texts and registers, including technical Spanish. It aims to develop 
linguistic and interpretative skills to a highly advanced level as well 
as to enhance the understanding of the translation process itself.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This scholarship is offered to a postgraduate masters students studying in one or more of of the following Departments: Italian, French, Dutch and History. the award is worth £7000 for one year and each Department can nominate one candidate on the basis of the admissions application.The scholarship is awarded on the basis of academic excellence, achievement and potential.The deadline for submission of applications is 30 April 2017. Applications submitted after this date will not be considered.For more information, please contact the Dr Julia Wagner in the SELCS/CMII post-graduate office.UCL Dutch aims to reward academic excellence among new students of its postgraduate programme by offering a scholarship for new students starting the MA in Dutch Studies in September 2014. The scholarship covers up to £600 towards study expenses like books, research travel and other research related expenses.Candidates must have been formally admitted to the MA Dutch Studies pathway of the Language, Culture & History MA before they can be considered for a scholarship.To be considered for a scholarship, you must have received a letter from the UCL Registry offering you a place on the programme, and you must have informed the UCL Registry, in writing, of your acceptance of the offer by 1 April 2016.Scholarships are awarded on the basis of academic excellence, achievement and potential. Financial circumstances of the candidates are not taken into account.This bursary has been made possible by generous donations of Alumni of UCL Dutch.Applications are invited for the Siva-Finestone MA Scholarship in French in UCL for the session 2017-18. The Scholarship covers full UK/EU tuition fees for a student admitted to the MA in Language, Culture and History (French and Francophone Studies) programme in the School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS).For further information, please contact the School Research Director, Professor Mairead Hanrahan.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance 
students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how 
to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Sorry, this Silva Document is not viewable.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 Read what our students have to say about their experiences of studying at SELCS and their time spent living and studying abroad as part of their Programmes. "I learned so much about how language and culture intertwine and this knowledge is now inextricably part of the way I view the world. The highlight was definitely my year abroad.""I chose UCL after falling in love with London. There is no other university in the city, let alone the UK, which captured its vibrant, multi-cultural and dynamic atmosphere as well as UCL."Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				"I learned so much about how language and culture intertwine and this knowledge is now inextricably part of the way I view the world. The highlight was definitely my year abroad."Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				"I chose UCL after falling in love with London. There is no other university in the city, let alone the UK, which captured its vibrant, multi-cultural and dynamic atmosphere as well as UCL."Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Students can choose from a vast range of degrees and specialisms with the School of European Languages, Culture and Society at UCL, many of which are not available at other institutions. 
SELCS has 6
departments with 11 languages to choose from, as well as options to study combination degrees with
SSEES (School of Slavonic and Eastern European Studies), SOAS (School of
Oriental and African Studies) and other departments at UCL. Find out more about our degree programmes below or by language/department.We offer single language degrees including BA French,
BA Spanish and Latin American Studies, BA German, BA Italian, BA Dutch, BA
Scandinavian Studies, BA Icelandic. We also offer a range of specialist degrees such BA Viking and Old Norse Studies.The BA Modern Languages enables you to combine the study of two languages and
their respective cultures. You can choose from two languages within SELCS, or one in SELCS
and one from other UCL departments or our partner institutions. The BA Modern Language Plus offers you the ability to combine the study of your
chosen language with a range of other subjects across UCL. Options include English, Film, Management, Philosophy amongst others. We also offer degrees in German or Scandinavian Studies and History, which are offered as separate programmes.This is a
degree programme that draws on the departmental expertise across SELCS, and
allows you to combine the study of up to three languages with your own choice
of cultural options in related courses. The BA Comparative Literature affirms UCL’s role as a global leader in
the diverse and thriving field of literary and cultural studies, building on the strength of
well-established departmental programmes, and on a unique range of
language-specific degrees.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Find out more about our Undergraduate Programmes, including details on applications and our year abroad.Come and meet us at UCL Open Days where you can find out what opportunities are on offer and talk to members of academic staff.Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				DUTC1001 - Dutch Language 1DUTC1101 - Born out of
Rebellion: The Netherlands from The Dutch Revolt to The Eve of World War IDUTC1201 - Modern Dutch Literary
TextsFREN1001 - Use of FrenchFREN1002 - French OralFREN1003 - Projects in the French LanguageFREN1101 - The Making of Modern
FranceFREN1102 - Reading French
Texts FREN1106 - French FilmGERM1001 - Modern German LanguageGERM1002 - German for
Beginners GERM1101 - Introduction to
German HistoryGERM1102 - Introduction to
German Language & Literature up to 1740GERM1104 - Introduction to
German Film since 1945 GERM1105 - An Introduction to Modern German LiteratureGERM1106 - An Introduction to German Linguistics ITAL1010 - First Year Italian Language ITAL1102 – Cinema and Literature from War to ReconstructionITAL1105 - Background to Dante and InfernoITAL1112 - Imagining the Nation: Italian UnificationITAL1116 - Italian Culture under Fascism ITAL1118 - Introduction to Renaissance ItalySCAN1001 - Basic DanishSCAN1002 - Basic SwedishSCAN1003 - Basic NorwegianSCAN1004 - Basic Modern
IcelandicSCAN1102 - Introduction to
Linguistics and the Scandinavian LanguagesSCAN1201 - Nordic
StorytellingSCAN1303 - Histories and
Cultures of the Nordic RegionSCAN1401 - Introduction to
Old NorseSCAN1402 - Vikings and Material CultureSPAN1001 - Spanish Language ISPAN1212 - Experiments in
Modern Spanish DramaSPAN1213 - Introduction to
Spanish FilmSPAN1220A - Introduction to
Modern Latin American Literature & Culture - Cancelled SPAN1222 - Civilisation and Barbarism in Argentine LiteratureSPAN1223 - Cultural Responses
to the Mexican RevolutionSPAN1224 - The Latin American SupernaturalSPAN1225 - The Spanish Ballad
Tradition from the Middle Ages to LorcaSPAN1500 - Introduction to Spanish and Latin American Studies





 



These courses are compulsory for those on the 'with Portuguese' diets, 
and then available to single honours students (subject to availability).PORT1010 - Beginners'
PortuguesePORT1226 - Introduction to
Portuguese LiteraturePORT1227 - The Brazilian NovelLCUL1001 - Language, Culture and RepresentationLITC1001 Cultural Encounters in World LiteratureLITC1002 How To Read TextsLITC1003 Intimate Strangers: Devils, Monsters, BeastsLITC1004 Literature of TravelLITC1006 Questions of RealismLITC1007 Re-Imagining the Self: Reading Chinese Short FictionLITC1009 Music, Film and Media in AfricaLITC1010 Topics in the Modern Novel: From Realism to Magical Realism Additional Course Content Module available in our partner departments.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150Contact hours: 5 hours (3 seminars, 4 supervisions)Student workload: Watching video or film, reading, supplementary tasks to support writing of the
reports  Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2 Tutor: Dr Benjamin Bacle Assessment: 100% coursework - 2 reports of 1,000 words each  Prerequisites: GCE A level FrenchThis module is compulsory for single-subject and French with Film students. It is
available to CS/ML/MLP francophone students who do not take FREN1002. The module aims to foster research skills and independent learning in French,
leading to the production of pieces of discursive French. In the course of the
year, students are required to write two reviews in French, each of 1000 words,
the subjects of which will normally be a recent book, video or film of their
choice. BA French with Film students will produce two film reviews.  The module is taught through a mixture of seminars and individual tutorials. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0
course units / 15 ECTS Level: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 300Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2 Tutor: Christine Sas and language assistantsAssessment: one unseen two-hour examination (35%); one listening comprehension and oral examination (30%); and a portfolio including essays, listening and vocabulary tests and grammar assignments (35%).Module Description:This is an intensive language module for beginners. Five hours per week are devoted to developing practical language skills alongside basic grammatical competence, to enable students to participate in a wide variety of language exchanges and transactions. By the end of the first year students should be able to communicate fluently in basic written and spoken Dutch, expressing ideas and feelings about non-specialist topics. Attention is paid to developing a critical language awareness. Two hours per week are set aside for self-study, over and above homework tasks and module assessments, in order to consolidate and complement classroom work.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Students should obtain a copy of Routledge Intensive Dutch Course (London/New York: Routledge 2006). Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2 Tutor: Ulrich TiedauAssessment: two 1500 word essays (25% each) and one unseen two-hour examination (50%).Module Description:Situated at the crossroads between the Anglophone, Francophone and German-speaking cultures, “the Low Countries”, present-day Belgium and the Netherlands, offer a fascinating picture of European history en miniature. Many common traits and similar developments have differentiated these countries from the surrounding great powers and have given them a distinct character.The module offers a broad survey of Low Countries History from the late Middle Ages to the eve of World War I. It aims to: develop a good understanding of the major topics of Dutch and Belgian history from the late Middle Ages to the early 20th century; introduce basic concepts and approaches in the study of history; help you develop analytical, writing and presentation skills.Although mainly directed at students of Dutch, the module is also suited for all learners with an interest in this European neighbour region of the UK, whose early modern history was closely intertwined with that of Britain. No previous historical knowledge or competence in Dutch is required.Preparatory reading and set texts: The following textbook, a standard history, provides backup to the programme:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2Tutor: Hans DemeyerAssessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (50%); and one 2000 word coursework essay (50%).Module Description:This term 2 module introduces students to Dutch and Flemish literature through a series of short texts in Dutch. The texts – poetry and prose – are accessible to students who started the language in term 1. The module aims to develop techniques of literary analysis, practice reading skills, expand vocabulary and give students a grounding in contemporary and twentieth-century literature written in Dutch. Preparatory reading and set texts: Many of the stories and poems to be studied in class will be taken from the anthologiesAdditional useful reading:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Full yearConvenor: Marie FournierTutor: various Assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (100%).Students must pass this exam to be able to progress onto second year.Available to: non-specialist students from outside the department who have an A in French at GCE A level.Module Description:The aim of this first-year core language module is to 
establish a firm grasp of basic grammatical structures and tenses and to
 engender the skills of comprehension, explanation and free production 
of written French in a variety of forms. The module is taught in French. Satisfactory attendance and completion of the coursework are normally prerequisites for examination entry.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Full yearConvenor: Marie FournierTutor: various Assessment: one fifteen minute oral examination (100%). Satisfactory completion of 
the coursework is normally a prerequisite for examination entry. Module Description:In this first-year language module, students are required to respond in 
French to a variety of texts and other stimuli in different linguistic 
situations - dialogue, group presentation, synopsis, judgment etc. 
Topics will include a variety of subjects.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Term 2Convenor: Dr Kevin InstonTutor: various Teaching structure:  weekly lecture and seminarAssessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (100%). Satisfactory completion of the coursework is normally a prerequisite for examination entry. Module Description:The aim of this module is to introduce students to some of the key historical events which have shaped modern France, and to develop their critical and essay-writing skills. It will examine documents relating to the Revolution, the Dreyfus Affair, Vichy and the decolonization of Algeria, and encourage students to question the discursive and rhetorical forms which shaped these historical debates. The module looks at the historical context and explores the social, political and symbolic significance of the events. It also incorporates an element of peer-editing which will ask students to reflect upon and improve their own writing practices.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 0.5 course units / 15 UCL credits / 7.5 ECTSCourse Convenor: Dr Thibaut Maus de Rolley Assessment: one unseen two-hour examination (100%). Satisfactory completion of the coursework is normally a prerequisite for examination entry. Available to: ESPS students for whom French is a minor language choose between this module and FREN1101 - The Making of Modern France. Term: Full YearModule Description: The aim of this core course taught
over two terms (Terms 1 & 2) is to introduce students to different literary
genres of writing in French (prose narrative, theatre, poetry) and to equip
them with the analytical skills they will need in subsequent years to study
texts in greater depth.  We will study (not necessarily in chronological
order) six texts or group of texts: the 12th-century Lais de Marie de France, a series of
twelve short narrative poems in verse; L'Heptaméron, a collection of
short stories written by Marguerite de Navarre in the first half of the 16th
century; Molière’s L’Ecole des femmes
(1662), a comedy in verse on the education of women; Denis Diderot’s Supplément
au Voyage de Bougainville (1796), a dialogue contrasting European society
with that of a utopian Tahiti; a selection of 19th-century sonnets;
and finally, Jean-Paul Sartre’s Huis Clos
(1944), an existentialist play in which three deceased characters find
themselves locked in a room for eternity.  Students will attend a series of lectures
(13 hours over two terms) and seminars (14 hours). Assessment will take the
form of critical commentaries that analyse the text in close detail. Prescribed texts: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 0.5 course unit / 15 UCL credits / 7.5 ECTSTutor: Dr Roland-Francois LackAssessment: one 2000-word assessed essay (50%) and one 90-minute unseen examination (50%).
 Satisfactory completion of the coursework is normally a prerequisite 
for examination entry.Term: Term 2Module Description:Through close and intensive study of two key films, one from 1961 and 
one from 2012, these seminars introduce students to the methodology of 
film study, including sequence analysis, in the context of French art 
cinema between 1959 and 2012. In conjunction with the two principal 
films, ten related films will also be studied, enabling students to 
develop a comparative approach to film study.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:You should obtain, in any edition, one of the following three books:These are expensive volumes to buy new, so you might want to look for second-hand copies.You should also have your own copy of the two principal films to be studied:These films will be studied in conjunction with the two principal films:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSTotal Learning Hours: 300
Terms: Term 1 and Term 2
Tutor: Various
Assessment: Coursework (10%), Oral Examination (20%), Timed Examinations - Paper 1 
(40%): translation, reading comprehension and grammar (3 hours); Paper 2
 (30%): essay (2 hours).This
module is for Year 1 students studying German at post-A
level/-IB and for
Year 2 students who studied GERM1002 in their First Year.Module Description:This is a language module that develops a
range of core linguistic skills, including spoken and written German, reading
comprehension, and translation from German into English. The module consists of 3 components:Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This
module is for Year 1 students studying German at ab initio level.Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTS Level: First level (level 4)
Total Learning Hours: 300
Terms: Term 1, Term 2 and Term 3
Tutor: Dr Dagmar PaulusTeaching structure: This is a 3-term module (10 weeks per
term). Language learning moves from guided to more creative and independent
work. Assessment: portfolio (30%), oral examination (20%),  oral presentation (10%), one unseen three-hour written examination (40%).Module Description:This module is aimed at students with little or no knowledge
of German. The module introduces students to various aspects of the
German-speaking world as a way of enabling them to begin building communicative
abilities in German in all four language modalities: reading, listening,
writing, and speaking. Through diverse collaborative and individual tasks and
exposure to a range of topics, text types, and different socio-cultural
situations, students acquire basic strategies for reading, listening, and
writing, and for participating in every-day conversations. In the process they
will learn to use with some confidence major sentence patterns and grammatical
features of German as well as high-frequency vocabulary of everyday life.
Integration of current technology (e.g., the Internet, e-mail, video)
familiarises students with the German-speaking world while at the same time
enhancing language learning.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: We also
recommend:   Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First level (level 4)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 2
Tutor: Dr Jeff BowersoxTeaching Structure: Term 2. 2-hour weekly
seminar taught in English, consisting of lectures, class discussions, and
student presentations. Moodle to be used as a repository for reading materials
as well as for preparatory assignments.Teaching Structure: One class presentation; one set of practice questions.Assessment: One take-home exam in Term III (100%).Module Description:In this course students
 will explore German history from the Middle Ages to the present day. We
 will cover major events in medieval and early modern times, including 
the German Reformation and the Thirty Years
War, but our main focus will be on the nineteenth and twentieth 
centuries. We will engage with a variety of topics, 
including nationalism and nation-building, revolution and reaction, 
industrialization and urbanization, changing gender roles
and social structures, empire at home and abroad, mass politics and 
culture, Germans’ roles and experiences in two world wars, Nazi racism 
and genocide, and division and unification in the Cold War world.  The 
common threads running throughout will be Germans’
persistent experimentation with defining “Germany” and the consequences 
for those variously included and excluded according to gender, class, 
religion, race, politics, and other categories. Upon successful 
completion of the class, students will be able to discuss fundamental 
trends in German historiography, will be able to make effective use of 
secondary and primary sources to make a historical
argument, and will be able to present their analysis in both written and
 oral form. Students will come away with a foundation for future classes
 as well as a basic understanding of trends that continue to shape 
German society today. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1 and Term 2 Tutor: Dr Sebastian Coxon Teaching structure: The
module is conducted through a mixture of lecture and discussion classes; one
hour per week over two terms.Assessment: one
unseen two-hour written examination (45%), one 2,500 word essay (45%) and
coursework (10%).  Module
Description: This
module gives a taste of premodern literature, taking a range of works including
medieval short stories, the first Arthurian romance in German and an early novel.
All of these texts were designed to entertain and instruct their audiences and
readers. Our aim is to understand how these dual functions worked and what such
earlier forms of literature can tell us about the history of storytelling and
poetic expression. Students
will have plenty of opportunity to learn to read medieval texts in the
original. Please
note this module is not available to students who have undertaken GERM1002.
(Most of the relevant secondary literature is in German.) Preparatory
Reading and Set Texts: · Topic I: Der
Stricker: Erzählungen, Fabeln, Reden, ed. O. Ehrismann, Stuttgart 1992etc (Reclam 8797). · Topic II: Ein
kurzweilig Lesen von Dil Ulenspiegel, ed. W. Lindow, Stuttgart 1970etc (Reclam 1687) · Topic III: Hartmann
von Aue: Erec, ed. V.
Mertens, Stuttgart 2008etc (Reclam 18530) Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 2
Tutor: Dr Memerid Puw DaviesAssessment: 1 two-hour written examination 50%; 1 assessed essay (2,500 words) 50%, for which students will have access to DVD material. Module Description:This module will examine a representative selection of German films made,
mostly before 1989, by prominent post-war directors in the Federal Republic of
Germany, such as Herzog, Wenders, Fassbinder and Tykwer. These films pay
particular attention to German history and society and we will discuss as an
ongoing theme the ways in which they reflect contemporary perceptions of
Germany and  its troubled past. The course
will thus introduce students to post-war German culture more broadly, as well
as to techniques of film analysis. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course units / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1 and Term 2
Tutor: Various
Teaching structure: All teaching for this module will be in small tutorial groups.
Assessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay (50%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (50%). **Module Description:This module introduces students to the systematic and
 rigorous study of German literature. Some of you may have done very 
little literature at school; others may be used to discussing literary 
texts. Our introductory half-module is meant to speak to both the 
beginners and the ‘old hands’. We take a selection of texts written 
between the second half of the eighteenth century and the present.An average of three weeks will be spent on each text. The module will 
focus on developing both analytical skills and essay-writing techniques.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:It is important that students acquire these texts and read them well in advance of the tutorials. Term one Term twoTranslations for ab initio students:** Please note that this Term 2
module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination.  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First level (level 4)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1
Tutor: Dr Geraldine HoranAssessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay (50%); and one unseen two-hour written examination with three essays	(50%). **Module Description:The module will provide an introduction to linguistic concepts
              and topics which help us to understand the structure and use of
              the German language in contemporary times. The fields studied in
              the module include: phonetics and phonology; inflection and derivation;
              syntax; lexical structure, lexical borrowing, and sociolinguistic
              variation. Although the main focus of the module will be on the
              German language, comparisons with contemporary English will also
              be made where relevant. Primary material will be taken from newspapers
              and magazines, television and the internet where necessary. Students
              will be encouraged to find their own examples of linguistic phenomena
              from these sources. An essential part of the module will involve
              background reading of secondary material to consolidate understanding
              of guiding linguistic theories and principles.
Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: * You should purchase a copy of this if possible.  ** Please note that this module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0
course units / 15 ECTS Level: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 300Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2 Tutor: VariousAssessment: one oral examination (25%), coursework (10%) and one 
unseen three-hour written examination (65%) consisting of the following 
three questions:Post-beginners:Beginners: Module Description: This is an intensive mandatory module for all 
students studying Italian in any Modern Languages and Modern Languages 
Plus combination, as well as for those taking single honours Italian. Students with previous knowledge of Italian are 
tested during Registration Week and streamed into groups (advanced and 
intermediate). All other students will attend the beginners' module. Teaching focuses on the development of integrated skills 
(written and oral production and reception) and on the appropriate use 
of language functions. The aim is to bring all students to post-A level 
standards of communicative competence in Italian in its linguistic, 
socio-linguistic and pragmatic aspects by the end of the academic year. Set Texts:You will be placed in a language group appropriate to your level of Italian at the start of term.Essay/ Oral Grammar/Translation (All Students) All students must own a bilingual dictionary. We recommend Oxford Paravia Italian Dictionary English-Italian Italian-English, Milan, Paravia Bruno Mondadori Editori, 2001 (or a later edition). Books can be purchased from the Italian Bookshop (http://www.italianbookshop.co.uk/) with a 10% discount.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2  Tutor: Professor John DickieAssessment: one unseen two-hour written examination 
(100%) plus two formative commentaries (600 words each)Module Description:In July 1943, Allied armies invaded Sicily, leading to the
collapse of Mussolini's Fascist regime. Thereafter, Italy lived through perhaps
the most tumultuous period in its history. As the Allies and Nazis battled it
out, the resistance and recalcitrant Fascists fought a civil war behind the lines.
With the Liberation came new expressive freedoms, but also social conflict and
economic crisis, and the difficult process of constructing the political ground
rules for the post-war Republic. When the Cold War began in 1947, Italy, which
had the largest Communist Party in Western Europe, found itself on the front
line. Meanwhile, as the first signs of economic recovery appeared, Hollywood,
and American culture generally, fuelled new aspirations. This course
studies the cinema and literature that reflected many of the issues of the
decade following Mussolini's fall. It will also serve as an introduction to the
study of narrative in film and literature more generally. The themes covered may
include: realism and 'Neorealism'; ideological conflict and propaganda; the
legacy of the resistance; consumerism and glamour.  Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:  Our reading will
concentrate on a selection of the following books:

Background reading Prescribed
filmsAll films studied during the module are
available to borrow from the Italian Departmental office and have English
subtitles. There will also be showings timetabled during the first term. The
precise films studied may vary, but will certainly include the following:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Oscar SchiavoneTeaching structure: Introductory 
lectures in the first half of the first term on Dante’s life and times will be 
followed by readings from the text itself.Assessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (100%). Module Description:In this module, we engage with one of the most famous works in European literature: Dante's Inferno. We will begin by briefly reviewing the life and times of Dante Alighieri (1265-1321): his career in literature, and his experiences in the social world of medieval Florence, and later as a political refugee after he was exiled from his home town. All of this prepares us for reading the Inferno, the first part of Dante's great narrative poem, the Commedia, telling of a journey through the afterlife from hell to heaven. It is a poem that has fascinated readers for nearly 700 years, with its vivid language immersing us into a compellingly imagined otherworld. The Inferno is at once a ghost story, a quest, a road-trip, a love story, a virtual reality, and a spiritual vision - though as we will discover, each of these terms requires definition in the context of medieval life and thought. In the first weeks, we will explore the general form of Dante's Inferno and get to grips with some of his leading ideas and his writing style. Classes will combine introductory lectures with close reading of selected passages from the Inferno, corresponding to the lecture topic. In the second part of term we will concentrate more closely on reading sections from the poem, improving analytical and interpretive skills via seminar-style discussions and informal presentations. These classes will provide opportunities to focus especially on the 11 canti that have been selected for close study, from the 34 canti that make up the complete Inferno. The set canti are: canti 1, 4, 5, 10, 13, 15, 19, 26, 27, 33 and 34.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:These will be circulated at the first lecture.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2Tutor: Professor Robert LumleyAssessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (100%); one compulsory but not assessed essay; and one compulsory but not assessed commentary.Module Description:The premise of the module is that it is impossible to understand Italy today without knowing how the country was unified in the first half of the 19th century - what is called 'the Risorgimento'. It introduces the protagonists of this epic: Mazzini, Garibaldi, Cavour, Verdi, and Manzoni, and looks at the part played by literature, and music as well as politics in the national cause. We examine how questions that still preoccupy Italians - the divisions between North and South, corrupt politicians, the power of the Church, - all originate in this key historical moment. Contemporary visual materials and documents are used, together with films on the Risorgimento. The content and the methods of study provide an excellent grounding for other modules in history, visual culture, cinema and literature taught in the department and across UCL.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(ITAL1116A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars
take place at the same times as ITAL1116.)Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1  Tutor: Dr Marta NiccolaiAssessment: ITAL1116: two 2,000-word essays (50% each).ITAL1116A: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module Description:This module is an overview of Italian culture during Fascism. It gives
an introduction to the literature, art, and cinema during Mussolini’s
dictatorship (1922-1943) and provides an understanding of the relationship
between Italian intellectuals and the Fascist State, the places, institutions,
and events (Accademia d’Italia, Littoriali della cultura e
dell’arte, etc.) for the production of culture during the regime, and
issues of censorship and cultural propaganda. It also considers Italy’s
cultural relationships with other countries during the Fascist regime, looking
at international exchanges and initiatives, translations of foreign books into
Italian, and the look of foreigners visiting the peninsula.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:The
following texts provide the general historical and cultural context for the
understanding of literary and visual productions analyzed during the module,
and also set the terms for broader debates, themes, and questions.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(ITAL1118A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars
take place at the same times as ITAL1118.)Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Lisa SampsonAssessment: ITAL1118: one 2000 word essay (50%); one unseen two-hour written examination (50%).ITAL1118A: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module Description: The ‘Renaissance’ refers
to the rebirth of classical culture and is associated with a period of innovation
in Italy across the arts and sciences. This introductory module allows students
to broaden their understanding of this key period of Italian civilization by
exploring the politics, society and culture from the late 14th to
the 16th centuries. The module discusses a variety of topics, such
as the political landscape, the rise of the papacy, the role of the family and
friends,  the Medici, humanism and education, and the
changing status of artists. Students will also have the opportunity to study
two of the most significant works of the period both linked to the Medici
dynasty of Florence. Machiavelli’s Prince
(1513) presents a fascinating and still very relevant analysis of the darker
aspects of political life; Vasari’s Lives
of the Artists (1550; 1568) is an
influential history of art, with vivid biographies of artists like Giotto and
Michelangelo and perspectives on their masterpieces. The module will be taught
by a combination of formal lectures and seminars and may involve a study trip
to the V&A museum.    All primary Italian
materials will be available in English translation to accommodate the
requirements of ab initio students,
but may also be read in the original Italian.   Preparatory reading
and set texts   Set texts* · Machiavelli, Niccolò, The Prince (preferred edition by Quentin Skinner and Russell Price
(Cambridge, 1988)) · Vasari, Giorgio, The Lives of the Artists, transl. with intro. and notes by Julia
Conaway Bondanella and Peter Bondanella (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1998)
(or any edition that includes the Prefaces, Giotto, Masaccio, Raphael and
Michelangelo) [*the Italian texts can both be accessed online: http://www.bibliotecaitaliana.it/] Background
reading/viewing · Najemy, John M., ed., Italy in the Age of the Renaissance (Oxford: Oxford University
Press, 2004)  · Hay, Dennis and John Law, Italy in the Age of the Renaissance (London: Longman, 1989) · Burke, Peter, The Italian Renaissance: culture and society in Italy, 2nd edition
(Oxford: Polity Press, 1999) · Cole, Alison, Art of the Italian Renaissance courts: virtue and magnificence
(London: George Weidenfeld and Nicolson, 1995) · F. W. Kent and Patricia Simons, with J. C. Eade,
eds, Patronage, Art, and Society in  Renaissance Italy (Oxford: Clarendon, 1987) · Najemy, John M., A History of Florence,
1200-1575 (Oxford: Blackwell, 2006) · Skinner, Quentin, Machiavelli: A very short introduction, 2nd edn (Oxford: OUP, 2000)
 · Grendler, Paul F., ed., Encyclopedia of the Renaissance, 6 vols (New York: Scribner’s,
1999) [informative longer entries for reference] · Web Gallery of Art: http://www.wga.hu/
(look at works by Giotto, Masaccio, Raphael and Michelangelo) Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0
course units / 15 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 300 Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2 Tutor: Dr Eleanor ChiariAssessment: two essay questions weighted 50% (2,500 words) and 50% (2,500 words)Available to: available
only to BA Language & Culture students, not to affiliates.Module Description: This interdisciplinary module
introduces students to theory and methods that will be useful across languages
and departments in and beyond SELCS. Topics covered will include general
introductions to cultural studies, visual culture, translation studies, gender
studies, postcolonial studies, sociolinguistics and intercultural communication
among others. The course also includes practical training from conducting oral
history interviews, to analysing a wide range of media sources (from films to
advertising), to museum field trips.  The second term will see
students prepare independent research projects in teams, which they
present to classmates and a panel of 'judges'. Students are encouraged to
participate in weekly discussions, on-line fora and learn as much from the
lecturer as from their multi-talented and multilingual classmates. Optional preparatory reading:  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: First level (level 4)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr
Ana Cláudia Suriani da SilvaAssessment: One 2,500-word
coursework essay (50%) and one unseen desk exam (50%)Course description:This course aims to introduce students to both the Brazilian novel and
its cultural, social, literary and historical contexts from the 19th
to the beginning of the 20th century. The module will explore
different traditions of novel writing in Brazil, place the emergence of
Brazilian novel in relation to the contemporary European novel, and introduce
students to a range of important discussions about the novel as a genre, its
cultural function, its audiences, and its relation to the social world.Method of delivery:Lectures
and seminars convened and facilitated by the individual course tutor.
Occasional guest lectures may be included in order to help expose students to
new scholarship especially from Brazil. The module is supported by an
individual course Moodle site. All course information will be made available
via Moodle. Primary texts for lectures and seminars will be made available via
Moodle. There will be film screenings of existing adaptations of the works
under study.Aims of the module:You may start reading the primary texts for this course
before classes begin. Primary texts (in English translation):Adaptations:  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course units / 15 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4)Total Learning Hours: 300Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2Tutor: Dr Joana Rita RamalhoTeaching structure: The class meets 4
hours per week in two 2-hour classes. The teaching is divided into four main
components: Oral, Grammar, Translation into
Portuguese and Translation into English. Other
skills, such as listening and reading comprehension and writing skills, are
included in each of the four components.Assessment: Final Desk Exam with components
of Grammar, Composition in Portuguese, Translation into Portuguese and
Translation into English (50%); Oral
Exam (20%); Coursework (30%). The coursework consists
of two grammar quizzes, two oral presentations, two writing exercises
in Portuguese, two translations into Portuguese, and two translations into
English. The breakdown for coursework marks is 3% for each component.  Module Description:Taken over two
terms, this is an intensive ab initio course designed for students who
have had little or no exposure to Portuguese. It aims to take you from basic to pre-intermediate level, matching
the linguistic ability of level A2 of the Common European Framework of
Reference for Languages (CEFR), with some aspects of B1 also being explored. The general language class provides
a friendly atmosphere where you can practice and gradually build up confidence
in spoken and written Portuguese. Both the
European and Brazilian varieties are explored. The
intensive grammar classes establish the foundations for the reading and translation of more advanced texts. The
translation classes equip you with the
relevant competences to tackle translations of literary and non-fiction texts
from Portuguese into English. They will also help you work towards accurate
translations from English into Portuguese. Over the two terms, you will hear
about some key Lusophone writers, artists, contemporary and historical
personalities, watch carefully selected video materials, and familiarize yourself
with some of the key media outlets of the Lusophone world. By the end of the
module, you will be able to communicate fluently in a wide range of everyday
situations, hold conversations on routine topics, write and translate
simple texts into Portuguese, and read and translate more advanced Portuguese texts
into English. You will be acquainted with key aspects of the Lusophone
culture(s) across the globe, and feel stimulated to establish connections
between the language classes and the
literary and intellectual worlds explored in the PORT content modules. We will encourage you to work
over the summer to ensure that you start Year 2 with confidence.Course materials:  Your tutor will make use of a combination of online
resources, grammars, textbooks and other materials. You are asked to bring the following
books to class. Whilst the library has copies for reference or short loan,
purchasing these materials is strongly recommended for use in class and at home: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(PORT1226A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The module  takes place at the same times as PORT1226A.)Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: First level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Zoltán BiedermannAssessment:PORT1226: one 2,500 word coursework essay (50%) and a two hour unseen desk exam (50%)
PORT1226A: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module Description:This module introduces students to Portuguese literature
with an emphasis on canonical texts and their historical contexts. The first
part is dedicated to the origins and first apogee of Portuguese as a literary
idiom. From Galician-Portuguese poetry, the module proceeds to three sessions
on the various facets of the sixteenth century, and concludes with the
prophetic tradition that informed António Vieira’s writing in the seventeenth
century. Thus the first part of the module collects references to an apparently
perennial tension in Portuguese literature between imperial glory on the one
hand, and loss on the other. This tension, it is argued, is to some extent
constitutive of the Portuguese literary tradition. But it also calls for a
critique, as the second part of the module demonstrates. In weeks 6-10 students
will read modern authors who, whilst reflecting upon the decay of Empire, are
most notable for personal narratives of fragmentation and loss. Materials will
be available in English translation. All secondary readings for the classes
will be in English.Companion:Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: SCAN1001: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSSCAN1001A/SCAN1001B:  15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: First Level (Level 4)
Total Learning Hours: 
SCAN1001: 300  SCAN1001A/SCAN1001B: 150

Term: SCAN1001: Full Year  SCAN1001A: Term 1 SCAN1001B: Term 2

Tutor: Dr Anne GrydehøjAssessment: SCAN1001A: 100% coursework. 
SCAN1001/SCAN1001B: one unseen three-hour written examination
(50%); one oral examination (30%); and course assessment (20%).Teaching Structure: 2x 2-hour seminar per week, consisting of tutor-led
discussions, communicative exercises and student presentations. Moodle to be used as a repository for reading
materials as well as for preparatory assignments and forum discussions.Module
Description:The module
aims to: strengthen the individual student’s awareness of different strategies
and methods for language learning; be goal-oriented in the work with the
language skills: speaking, understanding, writing and reading and with the
basic elements pronunciation, vocabulary and grammar; enable the students to
express themselves about everyday topics in speech and writing, to understand
everyday conversations, and to read texts of a reasonable level of difficulty.Class work
is communicative and task-oriented, encouraging students to be active
participants, to take responsibility for their own learning and to see work
outside class as an integrated part of classroom teaching.Preparatory
Reading and Set Texts:Textbooks:
The tutor's own material will be used (textbook tba), along with various texts,
video and audio materials, and exercises made available on the Moodle site. Grammar: It
is recommended that students have their own copy of R Allan, P Holmes & T
Lundskær-Nielsen, Danish: An
Essential Grammar (Routledge 2011).Dictionaries:
Dansk-engelsk ordbog
& Engelsk-dansk ordbog
(Gyldendal) or similar. Make sure that the dictionary gives you the gender of
nouns.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of 
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the 
academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: SCAN1002: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSSCAN1002A/SCAN1002B:  15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: First Level (Level 4) Total Learning Hours: SCAN1002: 300  SCAN1002A/SCAN1002B: 150 Term: SCAN1002: Full Year  SCAN1002A: Term 1 SCAN1002B: Term 2 Tutor: Jelena CalicAssessment: SCAN1002A:100% coursework.SCAN1002/SCAN1002B:one unseen three-hour written examination (50%); one oral
examination (30%); and one module assessment (20%).Module Description:The module aims to teach students basic vocabulary, grammar and sentence patterns
so as to enable them to read elementary Swedish texts, understand simple
everyday conversations and express themselves with some fluency in both speech
and writing. By
the use of a variety of techniques the students will gradually become
acquainted with spoken and written Swedish and develop the skills necessary to
express themselves in the language.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Textbook
and grammar to be announced in the first week of the Autumn Term. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSLevel: First Level (Level 4)Total Learning Hours: 300Term: Full YearTutor: Dr Elettra CarboneAssessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (50%); one oral examination (30%); and one assessment (20%).Module Description:The aim of the module is to teach the students basic communication skills in
Norwegian: speaking, reading, writing and understanding everyday
Norwegian. In class: Reading Norwegian texts. Conversation in
connection with texts and related everyday topics. Listening and
pronunciation exercises. Occasional role-play and class presentations
by individual students on topics they have prepared at home. Grammar is
explained systematically and the students are given exercises in
connection with grammatical points. At home: Reading, essay writing, translation, grammatical exercises
and occasional preparation of role-play and oral presentations. The form of Norwegian taught will be bokmål. As soon as practical, all class interaction will take place in Norwegian.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: Elisabeth Ellingsen and Kirsti Mac Donald, Norsk på 1-2-3, Cappelen Damm, 2010.One of the following grammars:DictionariesAll
 students must own a good English-Norwegian and Norwegian-English 
dictionary, one of the dictionaries must indicate the gender 
of Norwegian nouns. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSLevel: First Level (Level 4)Total Learning Hours: 300Term: Full YearTutor: Dr Helga Hlaðgerður LúthersdóttirAssessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (50%); one oralexamination (20%); and one assessment, in the form of a language portfolio (30%).Module Description:This module aims to give
students insight into the Icelandic language, its structure and history. The module equips students with a basic knowledge of Icelandic, both written and
spoken, so that they will be able to read elementary texts, engage in simple daily
conversation, and pursue further studies in the modern language. Students will gain
knowledge of the fundamentals of Icelandic grammar, vocabulary, sentence
structure and pronunciation. Modern texts will be studied as well, and students
will practice both spoken and written Icelandic to develop their skills in
expressing themselves in Icelandic. In addition, the module will cover in broad
outline the history of the language and contemporary ‘language politics’
(loan-words, neologisms etc.).Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:DictionariesReadings, Grammar and Exercises Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (Level 4)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Full YearConvenor: Jesper HansenAssessment:  one unseen three-hour written examination (70%); and one 2-3,000 word essay (30%).Module Description: It is essential for students following language modules at university level to have a grasp of basic linguistic 
terminology and concepts. This module focuses mainly on language as a set 
of formal, interdependent sub-systems, such as phonetics/phonology 
(sound production and sound systems), grammar in the sense of morphology
 (word-formation and word classes) and syntax (phrases, clauses, 
sentences and word order), as well as on broader aspects of language as a
 special communication system. This will initially be illustrated with 
the help of English and the knowledge thus gained will then at each 
stage be applied to the mainland Scandinavian languages (Danish, 
Norwegian and Swedish).A brief historical 
background, charting the main stages in the development of English and 
the mainland Scandinavian languages from Common Germanic to the present,
 will also be provided.By the end of the module, 
students should thus have a sound knowledge of basic phonetics and 
grammar and be able to apply this chiefly to their chosen mainland 
Scandinavian language. They will also have an overview of the basic 
phonetic and grammatical data in the two other mainland Scandinavian 
languages and of the key stages in the historical development of English
 and the Scandinavian languages.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Some handouts will be provided and other reading materials will be recommended at the start of the module.Please note that this module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (Level 4)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Jakob Stougaard-NielsenAssessment: One essay of 4,000 words (100%)
Teaching structure: Two-hour weekly seminars consisting of lectures,
class discussions and student presentations. Moodle to be used as a repository
for reading materials as well as for preparatory assignments, formative
assessments and forum discussions.  Module Description: This module aims to develop
the skills required to analyse and contextualise literary prose. The texts to
be studied are predominantly Nordic (in English translation), selected from the
long and rich tradition of Nordic folk, fairy and fantastic tales, from
Medieval ballads to Gothic tales and postmodern short stories, animated and
fantasy film. More generally, the module will investigate a variety of
narrative components (e.g. narrator, character, genre, theme), and will explore
why storytelling has been and continues to be a central human activity, how it
has changed over time and how stories reflect changing conceptions of Nordic
societies, cultures and identities. The module will introduce students to a
broad range of theories and methods in literary studies including narratology,
gender studies, print culture and monster studies. Preparatory Reading and Set
Texts: Reading materials and a guide
for locating texts to be studied in the module will be made available on
Moodle. Primary texts to be studied may include a selection of Scandinavian
folk tales, Hans Christian Andersen’s fairy tale The Little Mermaid (1837),
the Norwegian film Trollhunter (2010)
and the Swedish vampire novel, Let the
Right One In (2004). As basic text books, we
suggest you use: · Monika Fludernik, An Introduction to Narratology
(Routledge, 2009) · Andrew Bennett & Nicholas Royle, An
Introduction to Literature, Criticism and Theory (Pearson, 2009). · Marina Warner, Managing
Monsters (Vintage 1994) · Fred Botting, Gothic
(Routledge, 2014) · John Lindow, Trolls:
An Unnatural History (Reaktion Books, 2014) Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSLevel: First Level (Level 4)Total Learning Hours: 300Term: SCAN1303: Full Year (1cu), SCAN1303A: Term 1 (0.5cu), SCAN1303B: Term 2 (0.5cu)Tutor: Annika LindskogAssessment: coursework one (1,500 words, 15%); coursework two (2,500 words, 35%); coursework three (1,500 words, 15%); 2-hour written exam (35%)Assessment: SCAN1303A - coursework one (1,500 words, 30%); coursework two (2,500 words, 70%)Assessment: SCAN1303B - coursework one (1,500 words, 30%); 2-hour written exam (70%)Module Description:The module is designed to underpin a solid introduction to Scandinavian culture and language in the first year of the Department’s single and joint honours degree programmes. It is meant to introduce the study of history and of various forms of cultural production, while demonstrating the interaction between these cognate disciplines. The module also aims to contribute to the students’ intellectual and personal development by explicitly posing questions about power, ideology, authority and identity.Students will gain knowledge and understanding of:The module will provide a thoroughgoing, wide-ranging and stimulating introduction to the history and culture of the Nordic region. Taught in an explicitly interdisciplinary manner by a number of members of faculty from the Department of Scandinavian Studies, the module will invite students to reflect on the methodologies and approaches specific to different, cognate disciplines (such as History, Literary Studies, etc.), and to identify connections between them. A central concern is to emphasise the constructed nature of historical narrative, and to this end the module will be structured around a number of key dates, moving backwards and forwards in time to explore both historical causality and relevant cultural expressions of the sociological formations under investigation.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Journals: Students will also be expected to read appropriate chapters from standard history textbooks before each lecture/seminar, and to familiarise themselves with the primary materials chosen for that week. A Moodle site will allow for posting of digitised and online resources week-by-week, as well as post-seminar discussion.Please note that this module is assessed by both essay and examination (apart from SCAN1303A). In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the final essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSPG Value: 30 creditsLevel: First Level (Level 4)Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Full YearTutor: Dr Erin GoeresTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. UG Assessment: 2 x in-class tests (15% each), 1 x two-hour written exam (70%)SCAN1401A (Affiliates only): Two-hour written exam (100%)PG Assessment: Three-hour written exam (100%)Module Description:Old Norse,
the medieval precursor to the modern Scandinavian languages, was once heard
throughout Europe and beyond. During the
Middle Ages Scandinavian ships travelled west to North America and east to
Istanbul. The scope and variety of the
Old Norse literary corpus matches the remarkable span of these journeys: myths
and legends, love- and battle-poetry, prose narratives about kings,
adventurers, poets and saints are all found in Old Norse. This module will introduce students to a wide
range of Old Norse language and literature, situated within the broader context
of the history and culture of Viking and medieval Scandinavia. Students will develop a good understanding of
the basics of Old Norse grammar and by the end of the module will be able to
translate medieval Icelandic prose and some forms of poetry. They will become familiar with key texts in
the Eddic, skaldic and saga traditions, and will begin to explore ways in which
contemporary scholarship can shed light on the complex but rewarding world of
medieval literature.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Students
are advised to obtain a copy of A New
Introduction to Old Norse – Part 1: Grammar, ed. Michael Barnes (London,
2004).The two set texts will be Ari Þorgilsson’s Íslendingabók and Auðunar
þáttr in A New Introduction to Old
Norse – Part II: Reader, ed. Anthony Faulkes (London, 2008). Both volumes,
as well as the accompanying glossary, are available online at Viking Society Publications.  The
following will offer a good introduction to the subject: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (Level 4)Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Haki AntonssonAssessment: two essays of 2,000 words each
(50% + 50%)This
module introduces students to the material culture of Viking and medieval
Scandinavia. Through a series of workshops at the British Museum, British
Library and other London-based institutions, students will gain first-hand
experience working with artefacts and manuscripts from the period. These
workshops will complement a series of seminars held in the Department in which
students will examine more broadly the archaeology and history of the period,
as well as the theoretical background to the use of objects as sources for
history and culture.  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course units / 15 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4)Total Learning Hours: 300Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2Tutor: variousModule convenors: Dr Adolfo Sánchez Cuadrado & Marga Navarrete Teaching
structure:Assessment:
Final Desk Exam with components of
Grammar, Composition in Spanish, Translation into Spanish and Translation into
English (50%); Oral Exam (20%);
Coursework (30%). The coursework consists of two grammar
quizzes, two oral presentations, two writing exercises in Spanish, two
translations into Spanish, and two translations into English. The breakdown
for coursework marks is 3% for each component.Assessment 2016-17:Module
Description:This
is a post A-level first year Spanish language module, consolidating level B1
and exploring level B2 of the Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages (CEFR). By the end of the second term, students are expected to
master complex structures of written and spoken Spanish. You should be able to
communicate fluently in a variety of contexts and deal with most situations
likely to arise when travelling in a Spanish-speaking country. The Grammar and
Communicative Language Skills class provides a friendly atmosphere where you
can practice and build up confidence in spoken and written Spanish. Different
varieties of Spanish will be explored. The Translation classes equip you with
the relevant competences to tackle translations from both Spanish into English
(literary and non-fiction texts), and English into Spanish (audiovisual
materials, including a video that you will produce yourself). You will be
acquainted with key aspects of the Hispanic culture(s) across the globe, especially
in the Additional Contents and Skills classes.Please
note that there is no ab initio Spanish
language teaching in this Department. Set
Textbooks*: VV. AA. (2014),
Aula internacional 4. B2.1. Nueva edición. Barcelona: Difusión. 160
pages. ISBN: 9788415620853VV. AA. (2010), Todas
las voces B1. Curso de cultura y civilización. Barcelona: Difusión. 144
pages. ISBN: 9788484437222VV. AA. (2012), Developing
Writing Skills in Spanish. London and New York: Routledge. 372 pages.
Hardback ISBN: 9780415590822. Paperback ISBN: 9780415590839. [Digital copy
available from UCL library].VV. AA. (2011), Gramática
básica del estudiante de español. Edición revisada y ampliada. Barcelona:
Difusión. 302 pages. ISBN: 9788484437260.
 [You have the option of getting the English version: Students’ Basic
Grammar of Spanish. Revised and Expanded Edition. Barcelona: Difusión. 312
pages. ISBN: 9788484434375
] *Students are required to get a copy of each book and are expected to bring them to their respective classes according to the
weekly syllabus specified on Moodle.  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4)Total Learning Hours: 150Term/s: Term 2Tutor: Dr Gareth WoodAssessment: One 2,500 word coursework essay (50%) and a two-hour desk exam (50%)Module Description:This module will introduce students to the work
of Spain’s most ambitious dramatists of the early twentieth century: 
Ramón
María del Valle-Inclán, Miguel de Unamuno, and Federico García Lorca. 
These three writers were key figures in the flourishing of Spanish 
cultural life between the end of the nineteenth century and the outbreak
 of the Civil War in 1936, the year in which each of them died. Their 
dramatic works in particular fought against the stodgy, middle-class 
values that they believed were preventing the Spanish stage from 
becoming a focus of renewed artistic energy. Working chronologically, 
this module will examine how these three writers experimented with dramatic 
form,
the possibilities of staging, and the capacity of theatre to challenge 
its
audience to experience art in new ways.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:The set texts will be as follows:A more detailed bibliography of secondary sources will be provided via Moodle and in class.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(SPAN1213A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The module takes place at the same time as SPAN1213.)Value: 0.5 course unitsTerm: Term 1Tutor: Dr Maria Chiara D'ArgenioAssessment:SPAN1213: One 2,500 word coursework essay (50%) and a two-hour desk exam (50%)
SPAN1213A: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module Description:This
module will provide an introduction to film analysis and to key aspects of the
development of Spanish cinema. Topics examined will include: Melodrama, Film
noir, influence of Italian neo-realism, The Spanish Civil War, Censorship,
The political transition to democracy, Colonialism, Postmodernism,
Transnationalism. Films studied will include:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				****This module has been cancelled for 2017/18****Value: 0.5 course unitTutor: Dr Stephen FayAssessment: Two 2,000-word essays (each weighted at 50%) Module Description: This module introduces first-year students to key historical
moments of the 20th century in which Latin American societies and
cultures underwent significant transformations. The course explores these
transformations through the prism of some of the most significant (although not
necessarily the most well known) texts produced during this period. The
course is divided into two sections, each of which covers a different
but closely complementary theme.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Modernismo y Americanismo (weeks 6-10) Primary texts Complementary Texts:JMRDÁfrica en América (weeks 12-16)Primary Texts  Initial Complementary Texts:   Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s:  Term 2

Tutor: Dr Humberto Núñez-FaracoAssessment: One 2,500 word coursework essay (50%) plus one unseen desk exam (50%).Module Description: This course provides an introduction to 19th- and
20th-century Argentinian literature with particular attention to the dichotomy
civilisation versus barbarism. Topics examined include the conflict between the
colonial heritage and the progressive ideals of the liberal generation in the
first half of the 19th century, the participation and/or exclusion of different
ethnic groups in the process of constructing a national identity, the
appropriation of Positivist ideologies, and the emergence of cultural
nationalism in the 20th century. The texts studied will encourage in-class
debate on the role of ideology in nation-building, as well as issues regarding
race, class, and social conflict. Classes will take the form of lectures and
seminars involving discussion and close analysis of the texts studied. N.B. This course
is taught in Spanish (seminar discussions are held in English)Methodology:All classes combine an initial lecture of approx.
45 mins followed by a reading seminar (group discussion). There will be a
5-minute pause in-between. Students are kindly requested to read in
advance the corresponding texts for each week. Following each
lecture/seminar, full class notes will be posted on Moodle. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Course schedule:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: First Level (level 4)  Total Learning Hours: 150  Term/s: Term 2Tutor: Dr Macarena Jiménez NaranjoAssessment: One 2,500 word coursework essay (50%) and a two-hour desk exam (50%)Module Description:This module studies the representation
of the Mexican revolution in literature and muralism. We will cover the
life-course of a phenomenon that, although an extremely violent, costly and
lengthy period was simultaneously, as Octavio Paz has stated ‘a sudden
immersion of Mexico in her own being’. Mexico’s Revolution brought about
violent but also social, political and cultural change. It shook the entire
country from top to bottom and has been an obsession in culture, arts and
literature ever since. During the course we will cover both the revolution’s
armed struggle (a chaotic and violent period spanning the years 1910-1920), and
its institutional phase ranging from about 1920 to 1946. This course examines
artistic manifestations that look both analytically and critically at the Revolution
and its consequences. We will discuss works such as Los de abajo,
which was written in 1915, right in the midst of armed struggle, through to
novels published in the 1980s, such as Como agua para chocolate.
The course also focuses on the important role that visual culture played in
legitimising the Revolution and creating a sense of national identity which
included the poor and marginalised, for example through the work of muralists
like Diego Rivera. By examining the cultural responses to the Mexican
Revolution, this course seeks to analyse how the Revolution is mythologized,
explained, critiqued and justified in literature and culture, how it depicts
disillusionment with its promises, and issues of race, class, gender and
sexuality as they relate to Mexican history.   Texts: Mariano Azuela, Los de
abajo (1915)Mexican Muralism – (from 1920)Ángeles Mastretta, Arráncame la vida (1986)Juan Rulfo, El llano
en llamas – (1953)Laura Esquivel, Como agua para chocolate (1989)Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Term 1 Tutor: Professor Stephen HartAssessment: One 2,500 word coursework essay (50%) plus one unseen desk exam (50%).Module Description: This module analyses the expression of the
supernatural in Latin American culture, with particular reference to the ways
in which the economy of the supernatural is contrasted with natural law, how it
is understood and valued by individuals and specific social groups.

 Bibliography (primary
secondary material marked with an asterisk)     Amerindian Religion and Culture Bourget, Steve, Sex, Death and Sacrifice in Moche Religion and Visual Culture
(Austin: University of Texas Press, 2006). *Coe, Michael,
The Maya, 8th ed. (London: Thames
& Hudson, 2011). Carmichael,
Elizabeth & Chloe Sayer, The Skeleton
at the Feast: The Day of the Dead in Mexico (London: British Museum Press,
1991). *Davies,
Nigel, The Incas (Boulder, CO:
University of Boulder Press, 2007). Hemming,
John, The Conquest of the Incas
(London: Thames and Hudson, 2011). Isbell,
William H., Mummies and Mortuary
Monuments: A Postprocessual Prehistory of Central Andean Social Organisation
(Austin: University of Texas Press, 1997). León-Portilla,
Miguel, The Broken Spears: The Aztec
Account of the Conquest of Mexico (New York: Beacon Press, 2007). *Townsend,
Richard F., The Aztecs (London:
Thames & Hudson, 2010). Santa
Rosa de Lima  Bermúdez,
José Manuel, Vida de la gloriosa virgen
dominicana Santa Rosa de Sta. Maria, natural de Lima i Patrona Principal de las
Américas (Lima: Imprenta de los Huérfanos, 1827). Catá
de Calella, José Antonio, Vida portentosa
de la escalarecida virgen Santa Rosa de Santa María, vulgo Santa Rosa de Lima
(Lima: Librería y tipografía católica, 1886). Graziano, Frank, Wounds of Love: The Mystical Marriage of Saint Rose of Lima (New
York: Oxford University Press, 2004). Greer,
Allan & Jodi Bilinkoff (eds), Colonial
Saints: Discovering the Holy in the Americas (New York: Routledge, 2003). Hampe
Martínez, Teodoro, Santidad e identidad
criolla: estudio del proceso de canonización de Santa Rosa (Cuzco: Centro
de Estudios Regionales Andinos 'Bartolomé de las Casas', 1998). Iwasaki Cauti, Fernando, 'Mujeres al borde de
la perfección: Rosa de Santa Mara y las alumbradas de Lima', in Luis
Millones (ed.), Una partecita del cielo:
la vida de Santa Rosa de Lima narrada por Gonzalo de la Maza a quien ella
llamaba padre (Lima: Editorial Horizonte, 1993), pp. 71-110. *Millones,
Luis (ed.), Una partecita del cielo: la
vida de Santa Rosa de Lima narrada por Gonzalo de la Maza a quien ella llamaba
padre (Lima: Editorial Horizonte, 1993). Ronald
Morgan, Spanish American Saints and the
Rhetoric of Identity, 1600-1810 (Tucson: University of Arizona Press,
2002). *Mujilla
Puntilla, Ramón, Rosa limensis: mística,
política e iconografía en torno a la patrona de América (Mexico City: Fondo
de Cultura Economica, 2005), 2nd ed. Myers, Ann Kathleen, Neither Saints nor Sinners: Writing the Lives of Women in Spanish
America (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2003). *Myers,
Kathleen Ann, '"Redeemer of America": Rosa de Lima, the Dynamics of
Identity, and Canonisation', in Allan Greer & Jodi Blinkoff (eds), Colonial Saints: Discovering the Holy in the
Americas (New York: Routledge, 2003), pp. 251-275. Po-chia
Hsia, R., The World of Catholic Renewal,
1540-1670 (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2005). The
Virgin Mary in Mexico and Cuba: Santería Ashcroft,
Bill, Gareth Griffiths and Helen Tiffin, The
Post-colonial Studies Reader (London: Routledge, 1998), pp. 24–28.  Williams, Raymond, ‘The Analysis of Culture’,
in The Long Revolution (London: Chatto and Windus, 1961), pp. 57–88. *Ayoinde,
Christine, Afro-Cuban Religiosity, Revolution, and National Identity (Gainesville, FL: University Press of
Florida, 2004). *Bolívar,
Natalia, Santa Bárbara, Changó ¿sincretismo religioso? (Havana:
Editorial José Martí, 2007). Fernández
Olmos, Margarite, and Lizabeth Paravisini-Gebert, Creole Religions of
the Caribbean (New York: New York University Press, 2003). Gramsci,
Antonio, Selections from Cultural Writings, eds David Forgacs and G.
Nowell-Smith (London: Lawrence and Wishart, 1985). Holbraad, Martin, ‘Religious “Speculation”:
The Rise of Ifá Cults and Consumption in Post-Soviet Cuba’, Journal of Latin
American Studies, 36
(2004), 643–63. Hart, Stephen,
‘How Popular is Cuban Popular Culture?’, in  Latin American Popular
Culture: Politics, Media, Affect, eds Geoffrey Kantaris & Rory O’Bryen
(Woodbridge: Tamesis, 2013), 93-112. Iannaccone,
Laurence, ‘Religious Extremism: The Good, the Bad, and the Deadly’. Special
Issue of Public Choice (2009). Ed. Charles Rowley.   Spivak,
Gayatri, ‘Can the Subaltern Speak?’ In The Post-Colonial Studies
Reader. Ed.  Gabriel
García Márquez: Cien años de soledad   García
Marquez, Gabriel, Vivir para contarla
(Barcelona: Bruguera, 2002). Martin,
Gerald, Gabriel García Márquez: A Life
(London: Bloomsbury, 2008) Hart, Stephen,
Gabriel García Márquez (London:
Reaktion Books, 2010). Hart,
Stephen (edited with Wen-chin Ouyang), A
Companion to Magical Realism (Woodbridge: Tamesis, 2005). Swanson,
Philip (ed.), The Cambridge Companion to
Gabriel García Márquez (Cambridge: CUP, 2010) Kristal, Efraín, 'Lessons from the Golden Age
in Gabriel García Márquez's Living to
Tell the Tale', in A Companion to
Magical Realism, eds Stephen M. Hart & Wen-chin Ouyang (Woodbridge:
Tamesis, 2005), pp. 88-97. Bell, Michael, Gabriel García Márquez: Solitude and
Solidarity (London, 1993) *Harold
Bloom (ed.), Gabriel García Márquez's
'One Hundred Years of Solitude' (Philadelphia, PA, 2003) Bowers,
Maggie, Magic(al) Realism (London:
Routledge, 2004). Faris,
Wendy, Ordinary Enchantments: Magical
Realism and the Remystification of Narrative (Nashville: Vanderbilt
University Press, 2004). *Parkinson Zamora, Lois, and Wendy Faris
(eds), Magical Realism: Theory, History,
Community (Durham, NC: Duke University Press, 1995). Dash, Michael,
'Marvellous Realism: The Way out of "Negritude"', in The Post-Colonial Studies Reader, eds
Bill Ashcroft, Gareth Griffiths and Helen Tiffin (London: Routledge, 1995), pp.
199-201. Durix,
Jean-Pierre, Mimesis, Genres and
Post-Colonial Discourse: Deconstructing Magical Realism (London: Macmillan,
1998). Chanady,
Amaryll Beatrice, Magical Realism and the
Fantastic: Resolved versus Unresolved Antinomy (New York: Garland, 1985). *Bell-Villada,
Gene H. (ed.), Gabriel García Márquez's
One Hundred Years of Solitude: A Casebook (Oxford, 2002). Rodríguez-Vergara, Isabel, El mundo satírico de Gabriel García Márquez
(Madrid, 1991). Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Term 2 

Tutor: Dr Tyler FisherAssessment: One 2,500-word coursework essay (50%) and one unseen desk examination (50%)Module Description:This module provides
a broad introduction to an important Spanish poetic genre, the romance or
Spanish ballad. The module traces the conventions of this verse form across six
centuries, from those composed on the frontier between Moorish and Christian
Spain, to those that evolved in the New World and those that reflect
avant-garde aesthetics in the early twentieth century. This involves critical
commentary on particular texts and broader study of the romancero in
its varying cultural contexts. Students will have the opportunity to analyze
recurring motifs and to identify innovations in this enduring genre, while
honing their critical writing skills. A creative component of this module
encourages students to engage with the ballad tradition by composing their own
imitative romances.The
course tutor convenes and facilitates lectures and seminars. All course
information will be made available via Moodle, as well as many of the primary
texts for lectures and seminars. You may start reading for this module before
classes begin. Key readings are marked with an asterisk in the list of texts.Texts: *Romancero, ed. Paloma Díaz-Mas. The
Spanish Ballad in the Golden Age, ed. Nigel Griffin, Clive Griffin, et al. Romancero
tradicional de América,
ed. Mercedes Díaz Roig. *Antonio
Machado, 'La tierra de Alvargonzález'. José
Peón del Valle, Cuba victrix: Romancero de las guerras de independencia. *Federico
García Lorca, Romancero gitano.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: First Level (level 4) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2 Tutor: Various. The convenor is Dr Zoltán
Biedermann Teaching structure: a series of 15 one-hour lectures and 14 one-hour seminars
spread over Terms 1 and 2. Assessment: Coursework 1 (1,500 words): 40%; Coursework 2 (2,000
words) 60%Module Description: This course introduces students
to key aspects of global Hispanic history and culture from the late medieval
period to the 21st century, and acts as a foundation on which
students in the Department will build throughout the rest of their degree. It
exposes students to a wide variety of materials – poetry, prose fiction, essay
and film – and explores different ways of making sense of them through
historical contextualisation, close reading and critical analysis. Students
gain a critical appreciation of the canon of Spanish and Latin American
Studies, whilst also developing the tools to explore less canonical authors and
works. In the seminars, we will focus on discussing the primary materials and
develop key skills in reading and writing. This module is team-taught by
permanent members of academic staff, allowing students to become acquainted
with a wide range of research methods and approaches. It runs over two terms,
enabling students to engage in in-depth readings of the literary and critical
materials, including some longer texts in Spanish, and in a systematic
development of skills that will prove useful throughout their entire BA
programme. A series of films will be screened as part of the module, some of
which are studied in Term 2.  Course
materials: A list of course materials is
available on Moodle, and many of the materials will be uploaded there. Key
items will be available for purchase at the Gower Street/Tavistock Place branch
of Waterstone’s.  Set Readings and Viewings N.B.
Please ensure you come to each lecture and seminar having read or viewed the
prescribed material for that class, detailed below.Term 1 Lecture
1: Introduction (Dr Zoltán Biedermann) · Jean
Dangler, ‘Edging Toward Iberia’, Diacritics, 36: 3/4 (2006) “Theories of
Medieval Iberia”, 12-26. http://www.jstor.org/stable/20204139 Seminar 1: Introduction · Reading as for Lecture 1. Lecture 2: Society and
Literature in the Golden Age:
Lazarillo de Tormes (I) (Dr Alexander
Samson) · R. O. Jones, ed, La Vida de
Lazarillo de Tormes y Sus Fortunas y Adversidades  (Manchester: Manchester University Press, 1966). Prólogo, Tratados
1-3. · Javier Herrero, ‘Renaissance Poverty
and Lazarillo's Family: The Birth of the Picaresque Genre’ Publications of
the Modern Language Association of America (1979), 876-886. Seminar 2: Society and Literature in the
Golden Age: Lazarillo de Tormes (I) · Close reading of Prologue.   Lecture 3: Society and Literature in the
Golden Age: Lazarillo de Tormes (II) (Dr
Alexander Samson) · Tratado 5.  · Thomas Hanrahan, ‘Lazarillo de Tormes:
Erasmian Satire or Protestant Reform?.’ Hispania
(1983), 333-339. Seminar 3: Society and
Literature in the Golden Age: Lazarillo
de Tormes (II)  · Reading as for Lecture 3.   Lecture 4: Contact
and Conquest in the Americas (I)
(Dr Adrian Pearce) · Matthew Restall, ‘A Handful of
Adventurers: The Myth of Exceptional Men’, in Seven Myths of the Spanish Conquest (Oxford: Oxford University
Press, 2003), chap. 1.   Seminar 4: Contact
and Conquest in the Americas (I) · Cristóbal
Colón, ‘Carta a los Reyes’, 4 Mar. 1493, in B. W. Ife (ed.), Letters from America: Columbus’s First Accounts
of the 1492 Voyage (London: King’s College London, 1992), pp. 24-43.   Lecture 5: Contact
and Conquest in the Americas (II) (Dr Adrian Pearce) · Camilla Townsend, ‘Burying the White
Gods: New Perspectives on the Conquest of Mexico’, American Historical Review 108: 3 (June 2003), 659-87.   Seminar 5: Contact
and Conquest in the Americas (II) · Hernán Cortés Cartas
y documentos, ed. by Mario Hernández Sánchez-Barba (Mexico City: Editorial
Porrúa, 1963), pp. 58-60. · Bernal Días del Castillo, Historia Verdadera de la Conquista de la Nueva  España (Barcelona: Linkgua Ediciones, 2007), chap. 37,
pp. 153-7. · Miguel León-Portilla (ed.), Visión de los vencidos (Madrid: Dastín, 2000), chap. 8, pp. 111-14.   Lecture 6: Identity and Gender in
Colonial Spanish America (I) (Dr Adrian Pearce) · Susan Migden Socolow, ‘Women, Marriage,
and Family’, in The Women of Colonial
Latin America (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2015), chap. 5.   Seminar 6: Identity and Gender in
Colonial Spanish America (I) · Sor
Juana Inés De la Cruz, ‘Respuesta a Sor Filotea’, 1 Mar. 1691, http://www.ensayistas.org/antologia/XVII/sorjuana/sorjuana1.htm.      Lecture 7: Identity and Gender in
Colonial Spanish America (II) (Dr Adrian Pearce) · Reading tbc.   Seminar 7: Identity and Gender in
Colonial Spanish America (II) · Simón Bolívar, ‘La carta de Jamaica’, Kingston,
Jamaica, 6 Sept. 1815, available at: http://www.archivodellibertador.gob.ve/escritos/buscador/spip.php?article1268.
     Term 2 Lecture 1: Nation Building in 19th
Century Spanish America: Sab (Dr Debbie
Martin) · Gertrudis Gómez de Avellaneda, Sab, ed. by Catherine Davies (Manchester:
Manchester University Press, 2001). Seminar 1: Nation Building in 19th Century Spanish America: Sab · Doris Sommer, ‘Sab C’est Moi’, in Foundational Fictions: The National Romances
of Latin America (Berkeley: University of California Press, 1991), pp. 114-37. · Close reading section of Sab tbc.   Lecture 2: Legacies of Decline: Spain at
the Turn of the 20th Century (I) (Dr Gareth Wood) · Miguel de Unamuno, En torno al casticismo, with a particular focus
on ch.  5.
 · Emilia Pardo Bazán, articles published
under the byline ‘La vida contemporánea’ in La Ilustración Artística,
numbers 821, 853, 855, 857, 861, and 863. Accessible via the Hemeroteca Digital
section of the Biblioteca Nacional website: www.bn.es Seminar 2: Legacies of Decline:
Spain at the Turn of the 20th Century (I) · Sebastian Balfour, ‘Riot, Regeneration
and Reaction: Spain in the Aftermath of the 1898 Disaster’, The Historical
Journal, 38:2 (1995), 405-23. · David Henn, ‘Reflections on the War of
1898 in Pardo Bazán’s Fiction and Travel Chronicles’, Modern Language Review,
94 (1999), 415-25. Lecture 3: Legacies of Decline:
Spain at the Turn of the 20th Century (II): ‘La tierra de Alvargonzález’  (Dr Gareth Wood) · Antonio Machado, ‘La tierra de Alvargonzález’, anthologized in Campos de
Castilla.  · The prose version of that same text, to
be made available via moodle. Seminar 3: Legacies of Decline:
Spain at the Turn of the 20th Century (II): ‘La tierra de Alvargonzález’  · Eric Southworth, ‘The Coherence of
Machado’s “La tierra de Alvargonzález”’, in The Discerning Eye: Studies
Presented to Robert Pring- Mill
on his Seventieth Birthday, ed. by Nigel Griffin and others  (Llangrannog: Dolphin, 1994), pp. 131-48. · Arthur Terry, A Companion to Campos
de Castilla (London: Grant & Cutler, 1973), chap. 3. Lecture
4: The Mexican Revolution and its Moral Repercussions
(1910–1940): El llano en llamas (Dr Humberto Núñez-Faraco) · Juan
Rulfo ‘El llano en llamas’ in El llano en
llamas (any edition) [a digital copy of this short story to be supplied on
Moodle) · The
Storm that Swept Mexico. Paradigm Productions, 2010. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pVWcgOcvgV0 · Marta Portal, Rulfo: dinámica de la violencia (Madrid: Ediciones de
Cultura Hispánica, 1990), pp. 97–107. Seminar
4: The Mexican Revolution and its Moral Repercussions
(1910–1940): El llano en llamas · Juan
Rulfo ‘Luvina’ and ‘Nos han dado la tierra’ in El llano en llamas (any edition) [digital copies of these short
stories to be supplied on moodle] · Jorge Rodríguez Padrón, ‘El más allá de Juan Rulfo (Algunas notas en torno
a Luvina)’, Cuadernos Hispanoamericanos, 421–423 (1985) 249–59. · Marta Portal, Rulfo: dinámica de la violencia (Madrid: Ediciones de
Cultura Hispánica, 1990), pp. 53–59, 117–24. Lecture
5: Ethnicity and Identity in the Poetry of
Nicolás Guillén (1930–1954) (Dr Humberto Núñez-Faraco) · Nicolás Guillén, ‘La canción del bongó’, ‘Canto negro’,
‘Sensemayá’, ‘No sé por qué piensas tú’. In Suma poética [digital
copies of these poems to be supplied on Moodle] · Keith Ellis, ‘Images of Black People in
the Poetry of Nicolás Guillén’, Afro-Hispanic Review, 7 (1988) 19–22. · Adriana Tous, La poesía de Nicolás Guillén (Madrid: Ediciones
Cultura Hispánica, 1971), pp. 93–114. Seminar
5: Ethnicity and Identity in the Poetry of
Nicolás Guillén (1930–1954) · Nicolás Guillén, ‘El abuelo’, ‘El apellido’. In Suma poética [digital copies of these poems to be supplied on
Moodle] · Roberto Fernández Retamar, El son de vuelo popular (La Habana:
UNEAC, 1972), pp. 45–60. · Gustavo Pérez Firmat, ‘Nicolás Guillén
Between the Son and the Sonnet’, Callaloo, 31 (1987) 318–28. Lecture
6: Cinema, Politics and Desire in Post-Civil War Spain: El espíritu de la colmena (Dr Debbie Martin) · El espíritu de la colmena. Dir Víctor Erice. Spain: Elías Querejeta
Producciones Cinematográficas, 1973. [copies available in the Library and Dept. office] Seminar 6: Cinema, Politics and Desire
in Post-Civil War Spain: El espíritu de
la colmena  · Rob Stone, Spanish Cinema (Harlow:
Longman/Pearson Education, 2002), pp. 88-94.  · Chris Perriam,  ‘El espíritu de la colmena: Memory,
Nostalgia, Trauma', in Burning Darkness: A Half Century of Spanish Cinema, ed. by Joan Ramon Resina (New York: SUNY Press, 2008), pp.
61-81. · Film sequence for analysis, tbc.   Lecture
7: Cinema, Politics and Desire in Early 21st Century Argentina: La ciénaga (Dr Debbie Martin) · La ciénaga.
Dir. Lucrecia Martel. (Argentina,
France, Spain: Lita Stantic Producciones, 2001). [copies available in the Library
and Dept. office] Seminar
7: Cinema, Politics and Desire in Early 21st Century Argentina: La ciénaga · David Oubiña, Estudio
crítico sobre La ciénaga (Buenos Aires: Picnic Editorial 2009), pp. 15-35. · Film
sequence for analysis: Opening sequence (00 – 3.50 mins).  Lecture
8: The Idea of Latin America (Dr Claire Lindsay) · Reading
tbc. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				DUTC2001 - Dutch Language 2DUTC2101 - At the Crossroads of Europe: Belgium, The Netherlands and Luxembourg in the 20th and 21st CenturiesDUTC2203 -Twentieth Century
Dutch Literature I: Themes DUTC2300 – Multiculturalism and IdentityFREN2001 - Use of FrenchFREN2002 - French OralFREN2101 - Introduction to Literary TheoryFREN2102 - The Medieval PeriodFREN2103 - The Renaissance PeriodFREN2104 - The Seventeenth CenturyFREN2105 - Enlightenment & Revolution: the 18th Century FREN2106 - The 19th CenturyFREN2107 - Exploration of Self and Form: the Contemporary Period FREN2108 - France: Culture & SocietyFREN2110 - Contesting Frenchness: Francophone LiteraturesGERM1001 - Modern German LanguageGERM1104 - Introduction to German Film since 1945GERM1106 - An Introduction to German LinguisticsGERM2002 - Modern German
Language II GERM2103 - Aspects of 20th Century German
History GERM2105 - History of the German LanguageGERM2106 - Love, Violence &
Laughter: Medieval and Early Modern German Literature and Culture up to 1740 GERM2107 - Debating
Enlightenment: Literature and Culture 1740 - 1870GERM2108 - The Challenge of Modernity: Literature and Culture from 1870 to the Present GERM2111 - Metropolen ITAL2020 - Second Year Italian Language ITAL2106 – Italian RomanticismITAL2112 – Futurism in ItalyITAL2113 - Docudrama in
Contemporary Italian CinemaITAL2116 - Fascist anti-Semitism and the Race Laws of 1938: origins, application and memory ITAL2117 - Writing Women in Renaissance ItalySCAN2001 - Intermediate
DanishSCAN2002 - Intermediate
SwedishSCAN2003 - Intermediate
NorwegianSCAN2004 - Intermediate Modern IcelandicSCAN2222 - Scandinavian
Literature in ContextSCAN2402 - Intermediate Old NorseSCAN7203 - An Extended Essay in Scandinavian StudiesSCAN7214 - Vikings and Valkyries in Contemporary Culture SCAN7310 - Politics and Society in the Nordic Countries, 1990s and AfterSCAN7405 - Viking-Age ScandinaviaSCAN7540 - Nordic CinemaSPAN2001 - Spanish Language
IISPAN2103 - What Women Want: La RegentaSPAN2109 - Women's Writing in
Latin America ISPAN2110 - Women's Writing in Latin America IISPAN2120 - The Essay in Spanish AmericaSPAN2121 - Introduction to Latin American CinemaSPAN2307 - The Subaltern in Latin American CultureSPAN2320 - The Literature of the Spanish InquisitionSPAN2400 - History of Colonial Latin AmericaSPAN2401 - History of Spain in the 20th CenturySPAN7302 - The Theatre in
Spain's Golden Age These courses are not available to joint honours students.PORT2010 - Intermediate
Portuguese PORT2201 - The Golden Age of
Portuguese Travel Literature PORT2310 - 20th-Century Brazilian Literary Works into Film These courses are not available to joint honours students.HIST6410 - History of Latin America c.1830-c.1930 Please note - this 1.0cu module is subject to availability (please be aware the History
department may not be in a position to approve/reject requests until the Friday
before the week teaching commences) and approval from the SELCS UG Tutor.  Guidance on registering for History modules.LITC2001 Imitation,
     Invention, AuthorshipLITC2002 Word, Image,
     SoundLITC2004 Urban Tales: The City in East Asian Literature LITC2005 Consumer Culture: Literature, History, Theory   Additional Comparative Literature Modules available in our partner departments.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0
course units / 15 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level
5)
 Total Learning Hours: 300
Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2 Tutor: Christine Sas and language assistantsTeaching structure: Four hours a week are devoted to extending knowledge and proficiency of language across a variety of genres and discourses. One hour per week is devoted specifically to listening and speaking tasks.Assessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (35%); one oral examination (30%); and continuous assessment including vocabulary and listening tests, essays and grammar assignments (35%).Module Description:Topics cover current affairs, debates and cultural issues in the Low Countries. Language tasks in this course require a more sustained presentation of information and argumentation, in both speaking and writing.  There are additional conversation sessions with a student language assistant.  Students are expected to take increasing responsibility for identifying their own strengths and weaknesses and for taking remedial action as appropriate. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Students should obtain a copy of Routledge Intensive Dutch Course (London/New York: Routledge 2006). In the second term, students will be required to purchase Wijze Woorden (Amsterdam: Intertaal 2002), a Dutch academic vocabulary textbook, in preparation for the year abroad.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(DUTC2101A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars
take place at the same times as DUTC2101.)Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level
5)
  Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1 Tutor: Ulrich TiedauAssessment: DUTC2101: two 1500 word essays (25% each) and one unseen two-hour written examination (50%).DUTC2101A: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Available to: While it is mainly aimed at students of Dutch, the module is open to all students with an interest in the 20th and 21st century history of these two neighbouring countries of the UK. Knowledge of Dutch is not required.Module Description: This is a module about political, social, cultural and economic change in the Benelux countries from the inter-war period to the present. Among the themes covered are: the crisis of democracy in the 1930s; collaboration, resistance and accommodation during the German occupation of World War II; Dutch, Belgian and Luxembourgian post-war politics;  the Cold War and European integration; development of the modern welfare state; cultural revolution and new social movements in the 1960s; linguistic and inter-communal tensions and federalisation of Belgium; and immigration and the recent 'crisis of multiculturalism' in the Netherlands.The module aims to:Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:The following textbook, a standard history, provides back-up to the programme (copies of which are held in the College library):For a shorter survey of the history of the Benelux countries, please check out the following work:The module uses Online teaching and learning resources that are available on Moodle.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(DUTC2203A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars
take place at the same times as DUTC2203.)Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level
5)
  Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1 Tutor: Hans DemeyerAssessment: DUTC2203: one 2500 word coursework essay (70%); and one seminar presentation (30%).DUTC2203A: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module Description: This module explores the theme of identity and community in the
literature of the Netherlands and Flanders. We will look at fiction that deals
with questions of belonging, power, diversity and mechanisms of in- and
exclusion. The module will start from contemporary reflections on the loss of a
sense of community within a context of globalization and will then return to
the beginning of the 20th century. Our module will follow the course
of history by discussing literary texts that correspond to modernism (and its
utopias), to the disillusion after World War II and to postmodernism (and its
unravelling of utopias). We will analyse processes of identification (gender,
class, religion, politics, race) and the shifts in sense of time, space and
belonging throughout the twentieth century.  The primary texts have been chosen with students' language competence in
mind. Primary
Reading may include (fragments of):- Peter Verhelst, Geschiedenis van een berg. - Ferdinand Bordewijk, Blokken - Gerard Reve, De avonden - Paul Mennes, Soap - Cees Nooteboom, Rituelen - Willem Elsschot, Het dwaallichtPlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level
5)
  Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term: Term 2 
 
 Tutor: Christine Sas Assessment: two essays weighed at 30% and 70% eachAvailable to: While it is mainly aimed at students of Dutch, the module is open to all students. Knowledge of Dutch is not required.Module Description: In this course we look at debates surrounding multiculturalism,
identity, citizenship and immigration. We look at different interpretations of
multiculturalism as philosophical perspectives on the relationships between
different cultural communities. The course explores how these perspectives have
been acted out across time and place, from the ‘melting pot’ idea in the US in
the early 20th century to governmental policies encouraging immigrants to
maintain their home language and culture. The focus will be on the changing
policies and views on the multicultural debate in the Netherlands, but this
will be set in a global context. We also explore the notions of national
identity which are evoked in the multicultural debate and look at government
and media responses to this, such as the implementation of the canon of the
Dutch history as part of the curriculum at schools. The module
explores the backlash discourses around multiculturalism which have become more
and more prominent over the last few years. Students will read
academic, media reports, and will also look at film, art and
autobiographies where appropriate.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Full yearConvenor: Marie FournierTutor: various Assessment: one unseen three-hour written exam (100%). Satisfactory attendance and 
completion of the coursework are normally prerequisites for examination 
entry.Students must pass this module to progress onto their Year Abroad.Module Description:This second-year module requires students to respond in French to a 
variety of texts and other stimuli in linguistic situations such as 
dialogue, group presentation, synopsis, judgment etc. A variety of 
topics (all linked to French or francophone culture and actualités) will
 be covered.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.  The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Full yearConvenor: Ms Marie FournierTutor: various Assessment: twenty minute oral examination (100%).Module Description:This second-year module requires students to respond in French to a 
variety of texts and other stimuli in linguistic situations such as 
dialogue, group presentation, synopsis, judgment etc. A variety of 
topics (all linked to French or francophone culture and actualités) will
 be covered.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.  The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 1 Tutor: Mr James AgarAssessment: Two essays of 2000 words each (weighting 50% each) Module Description:This course aims
to contextualise and introduce key concepts in French postwar (literary) theory
by focusing on two of the key figures involved: Michel Foucault and Roland
Barthes. Post-war (literary) theory is characterized by an explosion in the
understanding of the ways literature, culture and thought can be approached and
conceptualized. The experience of literature is connected by these thinkers and
writers to experiences of philosophy, linguistics, sociology, history,
sexuality, as well as to the other arts.The first half of
term will focus on Michel Foucault, and his investigations of the ways in which
our understanding is structured by particular configurations of knowledge, and
the assumptions and desires which drive it. In the second half of term,
the course will focus on Roland Barthes, and the ways in which his
investigations into history, myth and ideology, for example, force readers into
an active kind of reading, and makes an engagement with writing a way of
resisting a range of cultural and ideological orthodoxies. The work of both
figures will be linked by their shared concern with issues of authority and
authorship, two areas of direct concern to literary study.The course will
be taught in a combination of tutor-led discussions and student-led
presentation and seminar debates. The aim is to engage with detailed close
reading of specific theoretical texts rather than presenting a wide overview of
the proliferating field of post-war theory and its approaches.The texts listed
below are the core texts for reading
and discussion. However, some will be discussed in more depth than others,
depending on the seminar format. There will also be some supplementary and
contextualising materials which will be required reading. Secondary reading
lists will be provided via Moodle. Set texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Jane GilbertTeaching structure: The term is divided into two halves: Christianity and its Others and The Court, Courtoisie and Courtly Love.Assessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (100%).Module Description:Christianity and its OthersIn
 the eleventh and twelfth centuries, energetic European expansion (in 
particular through the Crusades in Spain, North Africa, the Middle East 
and the Eastern Christian empire of Byzantium) coincided with the 
cultural development of vernacular French literature, which found many 
of its earliest resources in various non-Christian cultures (Latin, 
Arabic, Celtic). This module will explore some of the ways in which Old
 French literary texts represent Christians and the ‘pagans’ with whom 
they come into contact in encounters dramatized as violent, erotic 
and/or burlesque. We shall study epic, romance and comic texts. We shall
 analyse the kinds of desire engaged in the differing representations of
 the pagan other, and explore also how true to life (or otherwise – 
mainly otherwise!) these literary pagans were.The Court, Courtoisie and Courtly LoveThe
 Court provides the setting for much medieval literature. Often depicted
 as a luxurious place, the epitome of elegance and refinement, it is 
also seen as a destructive environment, full of jealousy, spite and 
scandal. We shall look at examples of literature produced for courts and
 depicting the people who live there. What are the pleasures of such a 
life, and what are its constraints? To what extent is life governed by 
codes of courtesy, and what problems do these codes create? In 
particular we shall examine the code of courtly love, what it was, and 
how it was problematised in some of the key works of medieval 
literature.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Christianity and its OthersThe Court, Courtoisie and Courtly LovePlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Thibaut Maus de RolleyAssessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (100%) Module Description: This module focuses on Renaissance
discourses of love: we will read the love poetry of Pierre de Ronsard (Les Amours, 1552-84) and Louise Labé (Sonnets, 1555), as well as Marguerite de
Navarre’s collection of short stories, the Heptaméron
(1559). (We will start with Ronsard, followed by Labé, and then Navarre.)
This will be an opportunity to explore key aspects of the period: love, of
course, its different conceptions, themes and rituals; but also sex; the representation of women and of the body; imitation; petrarchism;
neoplatonism; eroticism; poetry
and the visual arts.  In doing so, we will pay particular
attention to three questions: How is it possible for a poet to do new things by
imitating other poets, and to express something apparently as intimate and
subjective as love by repeating familiar forms, words and images? What happens
when women write in forms that had traditionally been used by men, and from
passive objects of desire, suddenly become the active subjects of an erotic and
artistic discourse? What do these literary discourses teach us – or forget to
teach us – about the social and cultural history of love and sex in the
Renaissance?Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please make sure you purchase the recommended editions. Further secondary reading will be
provided in due course. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2Tutor: To be confirmed Teaching structure: SeminarsAssessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (100%).Module Description:In the first part of the course, we will read a range of plays that raise questions about female desire and the place of women in state politics, the political impact of revenge and clemency, and the role of religion. To portray power on stage is to some extent to question its foundation, and we will explore the ways theatre reflected upon the political while staging gender issues.The seventeenth-century also saw the rise of new forms of expression. In the second part of the course we will take on the new social formations of court culture under Louis XIV. Lafayette’s novel will introduce us to the claustrophobic milieu of social espionage, while La Fontaine’s witty and sophisticated animal fables will guide us through a world of savage desires. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Kevin Inston Assessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (100%).Module Description:The socially critical and
intellectually progressivist literature called 'Enlightenment writing',
published under, and against, the Ancien Régime, is much discussed for its role
in fostering the collective atmosphere of the French Revolution of 1789, as
well as the modern democratic and imperialist institutions that emerged after
the Revolution. For today’s specialists, the writings studied in this module
had little or no impact on the ensuing social institutions, but certainly helped
to give birth to the egalitarian sensibilities, values and attitudes
fundamental to modern democracies. This module studies tensions and clashes
within the anti-authoritarian or non-authoritarian modes of writing, the
hybrid, transgressive uses of genre, aesthetic preoccupations, philosophical
and political principles and social critique contained in five controversial
works, as well as the reverberation of events.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2Tutors: Dr Roland Lack and Professor Andy LeakAssessment: one assessed 2000-word essay (50%) and one two hour unseen desk examination (50%)Module Description: Concentrating
on the novel, this module examines a series of major issues in relation to
nineteenth-century literature: its relations to revolution in the aesthetic,
political and social spheres; its awareness of the world beyond the frontiers
of Metropolitan France; its focus on the seemingly real and the everyday; its
formal experimentation; its preoccupation with the new category of experience
called ‘modernité’. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 1 Convenor: Professor Andrew LeakAssessment: two-hour written examination in term 3 (covering all components of FREN2107).Student workload:  prescribed reading; secondary reading as assigned; one practice essay; other work as assigned by course tutor.Module Description:This
module will examine four French texts from the twentieth century – a novel, a
piece of ‘life-writing’ and two influential theoretical texts. The focus of the
module will be on how these texts engage with modern forms of alienation. In so
doing, it will explore the implications of their innovation at the level of
form for the representation of the self.Set Texts:Roland Barthes, Mythologies
(Editions du Seuil, 1957)Georges Perec, Les
Choses (Julliard, 1965)Annie Ernaux, La
Place (Gallimard Folio, 1983)Guy Debord, La
Société du spectacle (Gallimard, 1993, 3rd Edition) [Also
available as a PDF at:http://classiques.uqac.ca/contemporains/debord_guy/societe_du_spectacle/societe_du_spectacle.pdf]Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2Tutor: Professor Philippe MarlièreTeaching structure: The module combines 10 lectures and 10 seminar classes.Assessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (100%).  Students will make one oral presentation at the beginning of a seminar class and submit a 1,500 word practice essay.Module Description:This module discusses the question of citizenship in 
multicultural France. It tackles the issues of immigration, nationality 
and citizenship in France, and looks at the French philosophy of 
integration through the study of the French republican tradition. Other 
topics on the module include the relationship between laïcité, the 
French politicised conception of secularism, and religion. The module 
concentrates on the legal, philosophical and political components of 
French citizenship and overall attempts to answer the following 
question: how to be French?It explores 
theoretical, historical and sociological aspects of the question; old 
and recent debates which revolve around the issue of French citizenship.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:All set texts and reading material (bibliography, 
practice essay questions, etc.) will be posted on Moodle by the 
beginning of Term 1.Background reading:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2Tutor: Professor Andrew LeakAssessment: two-hour desk examination (100%)Coursework: Students may be required to complete short written assignments or give presentations in class. Satisfactory attendance at classses is a prerequisite for entry into the assessment process.Module Description:This course aims to introduce a selection of
texts from twentieth-century francophone literature, examining the formal and
aesthetic preoccupations of francophone writings politically contesting
Frenchness. This course also explores the engagement of francophone writers
with a range of topics such as alienation, identity, tradition, modernity,
colonialism, ethnicity, sexuality, language, bilingualism and biculturalism.Set Texts:Supplementary Reading:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This
module is for Year 2 students who studied GERM1001 in their First Year. It is
not available to students who studied GERM1002.Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course units / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level 5)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1 and Term 2 
Tutor: various
Teaching structure: One
hour per week will be devoted to English-German translation and a
second hour to German-English translation and reading comprehension.
Assessment: one unseen
three-hour written examination involving translation into German (30%)
translation into English (30%) and one comprehension passage (30%); and coursework (10%).Module Description:This module builds on work completed in
the first year, using translation and comprehension exercises to
enhance fluency in reading, writing and understanding contemporary
German, as well as continuing to explore its relation to English. Passages for translation and comprehension will include contemporary
literary, historical and journalistic texts.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level 5)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1
Tutor: Professor Mark HewitsonTeaching structure: Term1 2-hour weekly seminar taught in English consisting of lectures, class
discussions and student presentations. Moodle to be used as a repository for
reading materials as well as for preparatory assignments.
Course Requirement: One presentation, three thinkpieces, one practice essay
Assessment: One take-home paper (100%)Module Description:In this class, students will grapple
with the significance of the Weimar and Nazi eras for modern German history.
 Topics will include the characteristic features of Weimar culture and
politics, the origins of the National Socialist movement and its rise to power,
the National Socialists’ utopian vision and their various efforts to implement
it, and the relationship between state and society.  Students will also
consider the nature of everyday life, the persecution of Jews and other
minorities, the uses of terror, the horrific culmination of the Nazi regime’s
ideological goals in the Second World War and the Holocaust, and, finally, the
memory of the period.   Upon successful
completion of the class, students will be able to explain political and social
dynamics at work in Weimar and Nazi Germany, discuss historiographical trends
relating to the era, make effective use of secondary and primary sources, and
present a coherent historical analysis in written and oral form. This will
allow students to historicise the period and critically comment on the ways
that it continues to shape contemporary society in Germany, Britain, and
beyond.  Preparatory
reading and set texts: Bergen, D., The Holocaust: A New
History (2008). Bessel, R. (ed.), Life in the Third Reich
(1987). Burleigh, M. and W. Wipperman, The Racial
State: Germany 1933-45 (1991). Caplan, J. (ed.), Nazi Germany (The Short Oxford History of Germany)
(2008). Crew, D. (ed.), Nazism and German Society 1933-1945 (1994).  Evans, R. J., The Coming of the Third Reich / The Third Reich
in Power / The Third Reich at War (2004-2008). Friedländer, S., Nazi Germany and the Jews, 2 vols. (1997, 2007). Gay, P., Weimar Culture: The Outsider as Insider (1974). Gregor, N. (ed.) Nazism (2000). Kershaw, I., The Nazi Dictatorship: Problems and Perspectives of
Interpretation, 4th ed. (2000). McElligott, A., Weimar Germany (Short Oxford History of Germany)
(2009). Overy, R., The Third Reich: A Chronicle (2011). Smith, H.W., The Oxford Handbook of
Modern German History (2011). Weitz, E. D., Weimar Germany: Promise and Tragedy (2007). Williamson, D. G., The
Third Reich (Seminar Studies in History), 4th ed. (2011).   Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate level (level 5)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: term 2
Tutor: Dr Geraldine HoranAssessment: one
assessed 2,500 word essay (50%); and one unseen two-hour examination (50%).
Three essays on topics covered in the course will be written in the
examination. You may not answer on the same topic of your assessed essay.Module Description: Have you ever wondered
where the German language came from, what it means that German belongs to the
'Germanic family of languages', or why there is High and Low German? This
module aims to provide some answers. We will chart emergence of the German
language from its pre-historic Indo-European beginnings to its establishment as
a major literary, philosophical and international language of the modern age.
The course will be divided in to four major sections: From Indo-European to Old
High German; Characteristics of Medieval German; Early New High German;
Developments in New High German the present day.   Preparatory reading and set texts:   Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level 5)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1 and Term 2
Tutor: Dr Sebastian CoxonTeaching structure: The module is conducted through a mixture of lecture
and discussion classes; one hour per week over two terms. 
Assessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay (50%); and one unseen two-hour
written examination (50%).Note: 

This module is not available to students who
took GERM1002 in Year 1 Module Description: This module will cover major
narrative texts from the Middle Ages and the Early Modern period. Consideration
will be given to both predominant themes (courtliness and heroism; conflicting
demands of love and society; transgression) and broader literary theoretical
questions (alterity; developments in medieval narrative technique; textual
in/stability).  Students will have plenty of
opportunity to learn to read medieval texts in the original. Preparatory Reading and Set
Texts: · Topic I: Das
Nibelungenlied. Nach der Handschrift B, ed. Ursula
Schulze, Stuttgart 2011etc (Reclam 18914) · Topic II: Wernher der
Gärtner: Helmbrecht, ed. Fritz
Tschirch, Stuttgart 1974etc (Reclam 9498) · Topic III: Hartmann
von Aue: Iwein, ed. Rüdiger Krohn, Stuttgart 2008etc (Reclam
18530) Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level 5)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1 and Term 2
Tutor: Reinier van StratenAssessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay	(50%); one unseen two-hour written examination	(50%).Module Description:This module will examine a representative selection of
German literature from the Enlightenment to the late 19th century, focusing on
the question how important literary epochs, from the Enlightenment itself to
Poetic Realism, have engaged with and 'debated' the concept of Enlightenment.
The module introduces students to texts by the century's most acknowledged authors,
including Kant, Lessing, Goethe, Schiller, Eichendorff, Heine, Kleist, Büchner,
and Keller. The module thus offers a broad overview over and explicitly links
the century's most important literary and intellectual movements, while at the
same time complementing the core modules GERM2106- Love, Violence and Laughter: Medieval and Early Modern German Literature and Culture up to 1740 and GERM2108- The Challenge of Modernity: Literature and Culture from 1870 to the Present.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Recommended English translations for ab initio students will be confirmed in due
course. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level 5)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1 and Term 2
Tutor: Dr Annie RingAssessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay (50%); one unseen two-hour written examination (50%). **Module Description:This course explores some of
the most exciting - and disturbing - ideas and artworks of the fast-moving
modern age. It reflects the ways in which, from the late nineteenth-century
onwards, the German-speaking world seemed to be turned upside-down by shocking
historical events, radical ideas and new cultural forms. The works studied in
this course show how these developments could be experienced as exhilarating,
disturbing, liberating, traumatic - or all of these at once. The module begins
with writing from the German Empire after 1871, and then considers classic
texts of early modernism, to the Weimar years and the rise of Nazism, to the
Third Reich. Finally, it looks at important currents in cultural and
socio-political life of the post-1945 period.Primary
Reading/Viewing   · Walter Benjamin, ‘Das Kunstwerk im Zeitalter seiner
technischen Reproduzierbarkeit’ (1936) · Slatan Dudow, Bertolt Brecht et al., Kuhle Wampe oder Wem gehört die Welt
(film, 1932) · Theodor Fontane, Effi Briest (1896) · Günter Grass, Im
Krebsgang (2002) · Franz Kafka, Die
Verwandlung (1916) · Thomas Mann, Der
Tod in Venedig (1912) · Monika Maron, Pawels
Briefe (1999) · Friedrich Nietzsche, ‘Über Wahrheit und Lüge im
außermoralischen Sinne‘ (1873) · Leni Riefenstahl, Olympia (1938) · Rainer Maria Rilke, Neue Gedichte (1907) · Arthur Schnitzler, Reigen (1920) Feel free to
use any modern edition of the above texts. They should all be easily available
in paperback. Films will be made available to view.Primary Reading for ab initio students only  · Walter Benjamin, ‘The Work of Art in the Age of
Mechanical Reproduction‘ (1936), in Walter Benjamin, The Work of Art in the Age
of Mechanical Reproduction, trans. by J.A. Underwood (London: Penguin 2008),
pp. 1-50  · Theodor Fontane, Effi Briest (1896), trans. by Helen Chambers and Hugh Rorrison
(London: Penguin, 2000)  · Günter Grass, Crabwalk
(2002), trans. by Krishna Wilson (London: Faber and Faber, 2004)  · Franz Kafka, ‘The Metamorphosis’ (1915) in Franz
Kafka, The Metamorphosis and Other
Stories, trans. by Joyce Crick (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2009), pp.
29-74  · Thomas Mann, ‘Death in Venice’ (1912), in Thomas
Mann, Death in Venice and Other Stories,
trans. by David Luke (London: Vintage, 1998), pp. 197-267  · Monika Maron, Pavel’s
Letters, trans. by Brigitte Goldstein (London: Harvill, 2002) · Friedrich Nietzsche, ‘On Truth and Lies in a
Nonmoral Sense’ (1873), in From Modernism
to Postmodernism: An Anthology (expanded second edition), ed. by Lawrence
Cahoone (Oxford: Blackwell, 2003), pp. 109-16  · Rainer Maria Rilke, New Poems / Neue Gedichte (1907), trans. by Stephen Cohn
(Manchester: Carcanet, 2004)  · Arthur Schnitzler, ‘Round Dance’ (1920) in Arthur
Schnitzler, Round Dance and Other Plays,
trans. by J.M.Q. Davies (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2004)  Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:  ** Please note that this module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination.  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				This
module is for Year 2 students who studied GERM1001 in their First Year. It is
not available to students who studied GERM1002.Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level 5)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1 and Term 2
Tutor:  VariousAssessment: Two take-home essays (one 1,000-word, 25%; one 1,500-word,
45%); and one twenty minute oral examination (30%). One essay will be on a
literary/cultural subject, the other on a political/historical subject. The
oral examination will be a report (Referat) on a topic set by the module tutor
and will be recorded, given in teams of four, and based on outline notes only.Module Description:This is an integrated language-culture module for second-year students. It is taught entirely in German and
designed as preparation for university-level study or work experience
during the Year Abroad. As such, it functions on two levels: 1. Content:
This module aims to provide students with the literary, cultural and
political history of the two capitals of Germany and Austria. The module will teach analytical skills in German using a number of texts,
from literary genres (poetry, drama, prose) to non-literary genres
(newspaper articles, political speeches, editorials). 2. Language acquisition:
All work for this module (reading, writing, speaking) must be done in
German. Specific language acquisition goals of the module are to:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0
course units / 15 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level
5)
  Total Learning Hours: 300
Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2
 
 Tutor: variousAssessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (65%); one 
oral examination (25%); and assessed coursework (10%). This is an intensive mandatory module for all students who are studyingItalian in any Modern Languages and Modern Languages Plus combination, as wellas for those following the single honours Italian BA.Module Description: The module assumes a satisfactory performance in the first 
year Italian language module. The aim of the module is to develop knowledge and 
use of Italian and a knowledge and understanding of Italian culture sufficient 
for students to cope successfully with the demands of their Year Abroad 
programme in Italy. In view of this, the module will also aim at developing 
increasing autonomy in student learning, including the ability to identify and 
plan individual strategies for the learning of Italian and the study of 
literary, historical and other subjects in Italian.Set Texts:A. Latino - M. Muscolino, Una grammatica italiana per tutti (Volume 2, B1-B2), Edilingua (Please note that Edilingua has just published a new edition of this book but the old version is equally fine) A. Filippone - S. Radicchi, Caccia ai tesori (B1-C1), LoescherA. De Giuli - C.M. Naddeo, Opera!, AlmaExtra material for the course will be uploaded on Moodle.Students must own 
a bilingual dictionary. We recommend Oxford Paravia Italian 
Dictionary English-Italian Italian-English, Milan, Paravia Bruno Mondadori 
Editori, 2001 (or a later edition).Books can be purchased from the Italian Bookshop with a 10% discount.  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level
5)
  Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Enrico PalandriAssessment: one unseen two-hour written examination (100%); and coursework.Module Description:This module focuses on two major Italian authors of the early 
nineteenth century. Manzoni’s promessi sposi and Leopardi’s Canti and Operette 
morali are studied in relation to the Italian debate on Romanticism and to 
European culture and society. Manzoni’s practice as a historical novelist is 
examined in the context of contemporary discussions of history and fiction. The 
links between Leopardi’s poetry and his thought are explored. Close attention is 
paid to individual texts.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:There are many good annotated editions of 
Manzoni’s I promessi sposi. Good English translations have been published by 
Dent (Everyman’s Library) and Penguin.  For Leopardi’s Canti the best commentaries are in the Meridiani (Milan,
Mondadori 1987) ed.  M.A. Rigoni. Leopardi’s
Zibaldone is now available in English., (Farrar, Strauss and Giroux,New York  2013)  On the two writers, see:  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(ITAL2112A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The lecture and seminars
take place at the same times as ITAL2112.) Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level
5)
  Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1 Tutor: Professor Robert LumleyAssessment: ITAL2112: two 2500 word essays (50% each).ITAL2112A: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module description:The course examines
responses to modernity in Italy in the early 20th century, to phenomena such as
the rise of the city, electrification, new modes of transport, and cinema.
These developments represented a threat to values based on a traditional and
rural society, while they promised utopian possibilities of transformation. The
Futurist movement, under the leadership of Marinetti, welcomed the new in its
battle against an Italy of passatismo. It presented the world with a stream of
manifestos for change on every subject, from the visual arts to theatre,
literature, love and cooking. The course situates Futurism within a wider
cultural and historical context, paying special attention to the manifestoes
and other writings. It focuses on the visual arts and the remarkable role of
this avant-garde in inventing new forms across a range of media from painting
and sculpture to graphics and photography, and in exercising an international
influence. By looking at the careers of artists (Balla, Boccioni, Carrà,
Severini, Russolo) before, during and after their Futurist phase, the course
examines how and why they adopted different attitudes to the movement and to
the politics of nationalism and fascism espoused by Marinetti. Finally, it
reviews the international reception and exhibition of Futurist art in the 20th
and 21st centuries.
 
  Preparatory reading and set texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level
5)
  Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Carlotta Ferrara degli UbertiAssessment: 2 assessed essays of 2500 words each (50% each) Module Description:The starting point of the module will be an
introduction to the history of anti-Semitism: definition(s), evolution,
typologies. This first step will be followed by a presentation of the
historical context of the 1920s-1930s and of the characteristics of the Fascist
regime, with a particular focus on the cultural aspects. At this point it will
be possible to approach the topic of the origins and evolution of Fascist
racism and anti-Semitism and of the debates and documents leading to the Race
Laws of 1938. The application of these Laws and its practical and moral
consequences on Jewish life and identity will be analyzed following the most
recent research. Students will be given the opportunity to read primary
sources, and to reflect on the place of Fascism and Fascist anti-Semitism in
Italian history and the connection between historiography and memory. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				  Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (level
5)
  Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Lisa SampsonAssessment: 2 assessed
essays of 2500 words each (50% each)Module description:Italy
was exceptional in 16thC Europe for the number and adventurousness
of the publications
produced by women. This module explores this phenomenon by looking at literary
practices and ideas on gender and women in Italy c.1380-1600 in a selection of
texts by Boccaccio, Vittoria Colonna, Veronica Franco and Moderata Fonte. These
writers will be studied in the context of significant social, historical and
intellectual shifts over the period, such as the rise of printing, the
Counter-Reformation, and challenges to Aristotelian thought on women. The
module will also consider topics related to the representation of women: sex vs
gender, the literary canon, the Renaissance debate on women (querelle des femmes), petrarchism,
religious culture, and neoplatonic ideas on beauty and love. The second part of
the module focuses particularly on 16thC Venice: it explores print
culture, literary networks, and courtesan and erotic culture. The
module builds on ITAL1118 Introduction to
Renaissance Italy, and will be taught using primary sources in Italian,
though post-beginners can refer to English translations.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:· Giovanni Boccaccio, Il Decamerone, any edition (selected novelle)· Giovanni Boccaccio, De Mulieribus Claris (Famous
Women), ed. and trans. Virginia Brown (Harvard University Press, 2001), (selected
biographies)· Vittoria Colonna, Rime, ed. by Alan Bullock (Rome, 1982)/[www.bibliotecaitaliana.it];
selected sonnets: ‘Rime amorose’, 1, 11, 63, 73, 76, 82; ‘Rime spirituali’, 1,
5, 78· Veronica Franco, Rime, in Poems and Selected
Letters translated by Ann R. Jones and Margaret F. Rosenthal (Chicago:
Chicago University press, 1998)]   · Veronica Franco, Lettere, ed. Stefano Bianchi (Rome: Salerno, 1998) [transl. in
Rosenthal ed.]  · Moderata Fonte, Il merito delle donne [1600], ed. by A. Chemello (Venice: Eidos,
1988) [transl. in Fonte, M., The Worth of
Women: Wherein Is Clearly Revealed Their Nobility and Their Superiority to Men,
ed. and transl. by Virginia Cox (Chicago: Chicago University Press, 1997)] Background reading· Hutson, Lorna, ed., Feminism and Renaissance Studies (Oxford, 1999)· Cox, Virginia, Women’s Writing in Italy 1400-1650 (Baltimore, 2008) · Cox, Virginia, The Prodigious Muse: Women’s Writing in Counter-Reformation Italy
(Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press, 2011)· Wiesner, Merry E., Women and Gender in Early
Modern Europe (Cambridge, 1993)· Panizza, Letizia and Wood, Sharon, eds, A
History of Women’s Writing in Italy (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press,
2000)· Benson, Pamela J., The Invention of the
Renaissance Woman: the Challenge of Female Independence in the Literature and
Thought of Italy and England (University Park, PA, 1992)Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Intermediate Level (level
5)
  Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 2 Convenor: Dr Eleanor ChiariAssessment: two 2000
word essays (50% each)Module description:This module builds
upon the LCUL1001 Language, Culture and Representation core course from year one (though students
are not required to have taken it to take it). The aim of this module is to get students to
practice applying cultural theory to a wide range of texts and
materials. Students will read a selection of original writings from famous
cultural theorists  as well as examples of academic applications of
these theories.  They will then be asked to do their own analysis of original
fiction/film/art in light of the theorists they have studied. Each week
they will be asked to either present on this material or to write short
non-assessed pieces of writing grappling with these theories. In addition to
discussing theory together in class  we will spend part of
every lesson assessing student writing and ideas together to polish and
perfect academic writing and critical thinking around complex academic and
visual texts.Preliminary reading list:Specific theorists will be chosen (still to be
confirmed). Students will be asked to read a selection of key texts by the
cultural theorist as well as works by scholars who make 'use' of the theorists.
They will then be given a specific work of fiction/film/photography/art and
will be asked to reflect on the ways such a piece can be interpreted in light
of the theories discussed in class. First Example:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
30
UCL credits / 1.0 course units / 15 ECTS  Level: Intermediate level (level 5)
 Total Learning Hours: 300
 Term/s: Full YearTutor: Dr Joana Rita RamalhoTeaching structure: The class meets 4 hours per week in two 2-hour
classes. The teaching is divided into four main components: Oral, Grammar, Translation
into Portuguese and Translation into English. Other
skills, such as listening and reading comprehension and writing skills, are
included in each of the four components.Assessment: Final Desk Exam with components of Grammar, Translation into Portuguese and Translation
into English (50%); Oral Exam (20%); Coursework (30%). The
coursework consists of two grammar quizzes, two oral presentations,
two writing exercises, two translations into Portuguese and two translations
into English. The breakdown for coursework marks is 3% for each
componentModule Description:Taken over two terms,
this is an intermediate course that builds on and consolidates previous
knowledge of the Portuguese language. Students must have been enrolled in the
Beginners’ course (PORT1010) offered by the department or must have otherwise
undertaken an equivalent course in a different institution or possess basic
speaking, writing, and listening skills through self-study. This module
consolidates your linguistic ability at Level B1 of the Common European
Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR), with some aspects of Level B2
also explored. By the end of the second term, students are expected to master
complex structures of written and spoken Portuguese. You should be able to
communicate fluently in a variety of contexts and deal with most situations
likely to arise when travelling in a Lusophone country. Students will be
developing skills in reading and translating short literary and non-fiction
texts in a variety of registers, including poems, short stories, novels,
newspaper articles and commentaries. Students explore the conventions of
European and Brazilian Portuguese, and can continue to develop their preference
for one or the other variety. Connections are encouraged to the materials
studied on Year 2 PORT content modules. Cultural aspects of the wider Lusophone world
will be introduced, preparing students for the Year Abroad. To learn more about
the Year Abroad, which students can spend in Brazil, Portugal, or (with work
placements) any other Lusophone country, follow this
link. We will encourage you to work over the summer to ensure that you make the
best of your stay abroad.Course materials: Your tutor will make use of a combination of online
resources, grammars, textbooks and other materials. You are asked to bring the
following book (the same as for PORT1010) to class: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(PORT2201A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The module takes place at the same time as PORT2201.)Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Intermediate Level (level 5)
 Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Zoltán BiedermannAssessment: PORT2201: one 3000 word essay (40%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (60%).
PORT2201A:1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). 
Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS. Module Description: This module
will introduce you to the critical study of Portuguese travel narratives,
geographical and ethnographic texts produced between c.1450 and 1650. We will
read a selection of translated primary texts narrating travels, encounters and
confrontations with extra-European cultures, accompanied by a selection of
secondary literature highlighting the quandaries of the genre’s intertwinements
with imperial expansion and the making of colonial societies in Brazil, Africa
and Asia. To highlight the unique characteristics of Portuguese travel writing,
the course covers the entire globe, but some emphasis will be placed on early
colonial Brazil and the East Indies. The secondary readings will help us to
reflect on questions of literary invention, appropriation and stereotyping in
the representation of other cultures. At the same time, we shall also examine
how travel accounts can function as historical sources and promote a better
understanding of the world that produced them.Please note that this Term 2
module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Primary texts in English translation: Further titles tba. Excerpts from all materials will be available
through Moodle. Please contact the tutor if you wish to read materials in
advance.Core secondary bibliography: Companions to the study of travel writing in general: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Intermediate Level (level 5)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Ana Cláudia Suriani da SilvaAssessment: 1,500 word coursework essay (30%), 15 minute oral presentation in pairs (30%), 2 hour desk examination (40%). Module Description: This module introduces students to 20th-century Brazilian literature and the cinema of Brazil through four novels and their adaptations into film. They reflect key themes of Brazilian literature and cinema: the city, the malandro, the backlands of the Northeast, urban violence, immigration, drought, popular culture and religion, going from Neo Realism and Cinema Novo to today. In addition to providing students with clearer understanding of the history, culture, and socio-economic realities of 20th century Brazil, this module seeks to explore how novels are adapted and interpreted for the screen and to address the question of how can studying film adaptation allows us to better understand what it is that literature does, and vice versa.Method of delivery:Lectures and seminars convened and
facilitated by the individual course tutor. There will be film screenings of
the adaptations and documentaries.Aims of the module:Intended learning outcomes:Upon successful completion of the
course, students are expected:You may start reading the primary texts for this course
before classes begin.Key Texts and films films:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 300Term: Full Year Convenor: Dr Anne GrydehøjTeaching structure: The module will consist of exercises and various
tasks including text-reading and discussion. The various activities will
continually be evaluated and adapted to best suit students’ needs.
 Assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (50%); one oral
examination (30%); and module assessment (20%). Module Description:  The module aims to: build on
and improve students’ strategies and methods for language learning; build on
and improve students’ language skills in speaking, understanding, writing and
reading including basic elements of pronunciation, vocabulary and grammar; enable
the students to express opinions and discuss various topics with some fluency
in both speech and writing, and to understand and read authentic Danish texts
at increasing levels of difficulty. Preparatory Reading and Set
Texts: Texts: The textbook Ordet
er frit (Birte Langgaard; Gyldendal: 2004) will be used, along with various
texts, video and audio materials, and exercises made available on the module
Moodle site. Grammar: It is recommended
that students have their own copy of R. Allan, P. Holmes & T.
Lundskær-Nielsen, Danish. An Essential Grammar (Routledge, 2011). Dictionaries: Dansk-engelsk
ordbog & Engelsk-dansk ordbog (Gyldendal) or similar. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 300Term: Full YearTutor: Ms Annika Lindskog Assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (50%); one oral
examination (30%); and one module assessment (20%).Module Description: The module aims to build on and
improve the students’ existing knowledge of Swedish so as to enable them to
read Swedish texts, understand everyday conversations, and express themselves
fluently in both speech and writing. Through the use of a variety of
techniques (such as study of various types of text, grammar exercises,
translation, conversation on everyday topics, etc.), the students will
gradually improve their spoken and written language.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Texts To be announced at the beginning
of the Autumn Term.    Grammar Dictionaries Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 300Term: Full YearTutor: Dr Elettra CarboneAssessment: one unseen written examination (50%); one oral examination (30%); and one module assessment (20%).Module Description: The module aims to build up and improve the students’ existing knowledge of Norwegian (bokmål), to enable them to read Norwegian (bokmål)
texts, understand everyday conversations, and express themselves well
enough in speech and writing to cope with life at a Norwegian
university in their third year. Besides using the chosen textbooks and workbooks (Mer norsk and Klart det!), once a week students will work a variety of original texts (newspaper articles, short essays, websites, blogs, short documentaries, and film clips) to strengthen their written and oral comprehension skills. Texts will form the basis of class discussion. Written tasks will be assigned as homework from week to week to consolidate the vocabulary encountered in class. Student
participation is essential and there will be conversation and
discussion of general topics, plus translation and listening
comprehension.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: Textbook  GrammarDictionaries All students must own a good
Norwegian-English and English-Norwegian dictionary. One of the
dictionaries must indicate the gender of Norwegian nouns. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 300Term: Full yearTutor: Dr Helga Hlaðgerður LúthersdóttirTeaching structure: The module is taught by
classroom instruction using texts which illustrate everyday life in Iceland,
past and present, and literary texts. As well as taking active part in lessons
the student will be expected to work on short compositions and essays, read
excerpts from several modern Icelandic literary texts, and participate in class
discussions in Icelandic.Assessment: one unseen written examination (50%); one oral examination (30%); and 
one assessed coursework in the form of language portfolio (20%).Module Description: This module aims to
develop the student’s ability to speak and understand, read and write Icelandic
up to an advanced level and to deepen their understanding of the grammar of the
language. Particular attention will be given to impersonal and passive
constructions and to the use of the subjunctive.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Recommended dictionaries Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Intermediate Level (Level 5)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1Convenor: Dr Elettra CarboneAssessment: One assessed essay (4,000 words; 100%).Module Description: This module aims to introduce students to some of the major
Nordic literary texts (prose, drama, lyric) from 1800 to the present day. The
aim is to develop students’ familiarity with a range of theoretical approaches
to literature by way of considering the works under the four themes of Crime,
Gender, City and Nature. Students will have the opportunity to read texts
written in their chosen Scandinavian language as well as to familiarise
themselves with texts in other Scandinavian languages (for those with no
previous knowledge of a mainland Scandinavian language, all texts will be available
in English translation). Students registered for the BA in Scandinavian Studies
MUST familiarise themselves with the set texts written in their chosen language
in the original language.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:The following texts or similar will be studied in the module: Henrik Ibsen, A Doll's House; August Strindberg, Miss Julie and Other Plays; Knut Hamsun, Hunger; Halldór Laxness, The Atom
Station; Jørgen-Frantz Jacobsen, Barbara; a  selection of nature poems from the nineteenth century; Dan Turèll, Murder in the Dark; extracts from Benny Andersen, The Contract Killer; Erlend Loe, Naïve. Super; extracts from Jan Kjærstad, The Seducer; Jonas Hassen Khemiri, Invasion!Suggested
background reading: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Full YearTutor: Dr Erin GoeresTeaching structure: Classes will take the form of seminar-style discussions
in which the translation of key passages will be set within the wider context
of Old Norse literary criticism and current scholarly debate.Assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (70%); and one 2,500 word essay (30%).Module Description:This module will build on ‘An Introduction to Old Norse’ and will continue
to familiarise students with the language and literature of Viking and medieval
Scandinavia. The first term will focus
on the development and characteristics of the Icelandic saga, while the second
term will explore the mythological treatise Snorra
Edda and the use of Old Norse mythology in eddic and skaldic poetry.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Nearly all
translation passages will be taken from A
New Introduction to Old Norse – Part II: Reader, ed. Anthony Faulkes
(London, 2008). Students are also advised to review topics covered previously
in A New Introduction to Old Norse – Part
1: Grammar, ed. Michael Barnes (London, 2004) before the start of term.
Both volumes, as well as the accompanying glossary, are available online. 
 Set texts
from the Reader will include Njáls saga and Íslendinga saga in the first term, and Skáldskaparmál and Þrymskviða in the second 
term. Additional material will be provided in class.It is strongly recommended that
students read the entirety of Njáls saga in
translation (available in Penguin Classics, The
Complete Sagas of Icelanders or similar) before the start of term. Useful secondary sources include: Useful reference works:Please note that this module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1Tutor:  Dr Helga Hlaogerou LuthersdottirAssessment: one assessed 4000 word essay (100%).Module Description:Norse myths and medieval sagas have been the
source for “popular” cultural trends since the first nationalistic approach of
the Romantics in 19th century Europe. Today, such Norse-based representations
have established a distinct visual and thematic identity within popular culture
transcending national and cultural boundaries. Through study of the source
myths combined with theoretical analysis of various popular texts such as
fantasy and graphic novels, comic books, film, music, video games and MMORPGs
(massively multiplayer online role-playing games), this module will guide students
to situate these depictions within a larger theoretical framework of Nordic
studies and cultural theory, while simultaneously
enabling them to analyse their own relationship with the various
representations of the “popular Norse”.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Primary TextsFilmsSecondary TextsAdditional texts will be introduced as the module progresses. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSPG Value: 30 UCL credits UG Level: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 2
Convenor: Dr Mart KuldkeppTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. UG Assessment: One unseen two-hour written examination (60%); and one 2,500
word essay (40%)PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%)Module
Description:The Nordic
countries have often been regarded as ‘model’ societies, famous for their high
levels of economic prosperity, social equality and political stability. We will
discuss the historical roots of this distinctive ‘Nordic’ experience and how it
has changed since the end of the Cold War, as the Nordic countries have needed
to adopt to new regional, Europe-wide and global developments. This historical
introduction will be followed by a thematic examination of contemporary Nordic
societies in a comparative perspective, looking at the varied legacies of the
‘Nordic model’. Topics to be covered include Nordic foreign and security
policy, domestic politics and the rise of the populist right, immigration and
integration, crime and justice, gender equality, environmentalism and Nordic
co-operation. It should be noted that a focus on the Nordic countries will also
provide a new perspective on some of the most important developments affecting
the whole of Europe over the last 25 years. Preparatory reading and
set texts: There
are no set texts.  A full reading list will be provided at the start of
the course.Mary
Hilson, The Nordic Model:
Scandinavia since 1945 (London: Reaktion, 2008).David Arter,
Scandinavian Politics Today (Manchester:
Manchester University Press. Third edition).Eric S
Einhorn and John Logue, Modern
Welfare States: Scandinavian Politics and Policy in the Global Era (Westport,
Connecticut, 2003).Knud V
Jespersen, A History of
Denmark, translated Ivan Hill (Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan, 2004). David
Kirby, A Concise History of
Finland (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2006).Jason Lavery,
The History of Finland
(Westport, Conn.: Greenwood Press, 2006).Osmo
Jussila, Seppo Hentilä and Jukka Nevakiri, From
Grand Duchy to Nation State: A political history of Finland since 1809, translated
David and Eva-Kaisa Arter (London:
Hurst & Co, 1999).Gunnar
Karlsson, Iceland's 1100
years : the history of a marginal society (London: Hurst, 1999).Rolf
Danielsen et al., Norway: A History from the Vikings to Our Own Times, translated by Michael Drake (Oslo: Scandinavian
University Press , 1995).Byron J
Nordstrom, The History of
Sweden (Westport, Conn.: Greenwood Press, 2002).Neil Kent,
A Concise History of Sweden (Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 2008).
 
 Notes: This Term 2 module is assessed by both essay and
examination. In order to allow students full coverage of the module, the
deadline for submission of the essay is the beginning of Term 3. In practice,
this will leave no or, at best, limited time to receive feedback on the essay
before the examination.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 300Term: Full YearTutor: Dr Haki AntonssonTeaching structure: The module will be taught through a combination of lectures and seminars.This module is also available as two one-term options, respectively:SCAN7405A - 0.5cu (Term 1)
SCAN7405B - 0.5cu (Term 2)Assessment: SCAN 7405 is assessed by one unseen three-hour written examination (50%); and two 2,500 word essays (25% each).Parts A and B are each assessed by 2 essays each of 2500 words (50% each)Module Description:The module will examine society and culture in Scandinavia in the period ca. 800-1100. Geographically the module will encompass Sweden, Denmark Norway, and the Norse colonies in the North Atlantic (the Faroes, Iceland, and Greenland). In the case of Iceland the time-span will extend to the end of the Commonwealth period (ca. 1262). The principal themes that the module will cover include: the causes of the Viking Age; the development and emergence of the three Scandinavian kingdoms; the nature of the pre-Christian religion; the conversion to Christianity; the development of Church organisation; relation with Europe, in particular the Insular world and the beginning of written culture. Particular emphasis will be placed on presenting and analysing the various source-categories relevant to Viking-Age Scandinavia. These include, for example, runic inscriptions, place-names, archaeological evidence and saga literature.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Claire ThomsonAssessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay (30%); and one assessed 4,000 word project (70%)Module Description:This module has two main objectives: (a) to enable students to develop the skills to analyse films as
texts in their cultural and historical contexts, and (b) to provide an overview
of the development and range of Nordic film as art and industry, within the
broader context of European film history. The module is structured into three blocks, respectively covering early and silent cinema in Denmark, Norway and Sweden; three Nordic auteurs, Dreyer, Bergman and Kaurismäki; and the notion of contemporary 'small-nation cinema', covering Icelandic film, Dogme 95, intercultural cinema and transnational co-production.The module consists of a weekly two-hour (approx) film screening with introduction, followed the next day by a two-hour seminar.  Students are expected to undertake
preparatory reading for lectures and seminars, to attend all
screenings and seminars, and
to watch additional films as necessary. A detailed course outline and week-by-week reading is available on the
module moodle site (UCL user id and login required).The first essay tests students' grasp of film analysis and their ability to apply it to particular films. The second piece of assessment is a project which is independently designed and researched by the student on a topic of his/her choice, under the guidance of the module tutor. Former students of the module have been able to publish outstanding project work under the auspices of the Norvik Press student writings series - see Framed Horizons below.No knowledge of a Scandinavian language is required as all films are subtitled (though a reading ability in a Scandinavian language does give access to a broader range of primary and secondary materials). Students from outside Scandinavian Studies are welcome to enrol, subject to available space.Key texts:  A week-by-week reading list is provided at the start of the module. Students are not expected to buy or read all of the texts below in advance; this list is indicative only.Weekly film screenings:Afgrunden (The Abyss, dir. Urban Gad, Denmark, 1910)Körkarlen (The Phantom Carriage, dir. Victor Sjöström, Sweden, 1920)Den hemmelighetsfulle leiligheten (The Mysterious Apartment, dir. Tancred Ibsen, Norway, 1948)Det sjunde inseglet (The Seventh Seal, dir. Ingmar Bergman, Sweden, 1957)Gertrud (Gertrud, dir. Carl Th. Dreyer, Denmark, 1966)Mies vailla menneisyyttä (The Man without a Past, dir. Aki Kaurismäki, Finland, 2002)Börn náttúrunnar (Children of Nature, dir. Friðrik Þór Friðriksson, Iceland, 1991)
Festen (The Celebration, dir. Thomas Vinterberg, Denmark, 1998)Zozo (dir. Josef Fares, Sweden, 2005)Miss Julie (dir. Liv Ullmann, Norway/Sweden/Ireland, 2014)Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Intermediate Level (level 5)  Total Learning Hours: 150  Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Maria Chiara D'ArgenioTeaching structure: This course
is taught by lectures and seminars which will include regular group discussion.Assessment: one 3000 word essay (40%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (60%). Module Description:This module is based on a
substantial survey of artistic forms which epitomize the difficulties and
limits of representing the Subaltern in Latin America. The figures of the
subaltern chosen include the woman in patriarchal society, the slave in
colonial society, the dispossessed peasantry in rural areas and the worker in a
capitalist society. These are characters whose voices and stories have been (at
least) partially hidden and their narratives culturally muted, albeit
persistent. As exemplified by Sor Juana´s question in the epigraph, the
artistic contributions we will study during this course set out to explore the
tensions existing between the possibility of speaking or subsuming to ‘the art
of saying without saying’.Subaltern studies is about the
representation of the third-world subject, representation in the political
sense of ‘speaking for’ a subject and in the artistic and philosophical sense
of ‘speaking of’ a subject. By examining the subaltern, this course seeks to
address issues such as the relationship between representation and power: which
representations are able to secure cultural domination and which do not.
Following an exploration of different definitions and concepts such as
hegemony, representation, discourse, ideology, positions of power, culture,
silence and subordination, and taking into account key aesthetic proposals
developed in the Latin American context, this course will consider literary,
pictorial, cinematic and historical works which speak to experiences of
subalternity in Latin America.Students should read all the texts listed below and the supplementary readings indicated by the course tutor before the allocated class. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
30
UCL credits / 1.0 course units / 15 ECTS  Level: First Level (level 4)
 Total Learning Hours: 300
 Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2Tutor: variousModule convenors: Adolfo Sánchez Cuadrado & Marga Navarrete Teaching
structure:Assessment 2017-18:
Final Desk Exam with components of
Grammar, Composition in Spanish, Translation into Spanish and Translation into
English (50%); Oral Exam (20%);
Coursework (30%). The coursework consists of two grammar
quizzes, two oral presentations, two writing exercises in Spanish, two
translations into Spanish, and two translations into English. The breakdown
for coursework marks is 3% for each component.Assessment 2016-17: Module
Description:This is a second-year Spanish
language module consolidating your proficiency at level B2 and exploring level
C1 of the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR). In the
Grammar and Communicative Skills classes you will expand your vocabulary and learn to use
increasingly more sophisticated language in a variety of contexts and registers,
as well as idioms, expressions and colloquialisms.
Different varieties of Spanish will be explored. The Translation classes will
help you enhance your translation competences already acquired in the previous
year in order to tackle a wider variety of texts in both language directions. You
will improve your knowledge of the Hispanic culture(s) across the globe,
especially in the Additional Contents and Skills classes, which will prepare
you for the Year Abroad. To learn more about the Year Abroad, which students
spend in one out of a wide range of Spanish-speaking countries, follow this linkSet
Textbooks (compulsory)*:  VV. AA. (2017), C
de C1. Barcelona: Difusión. 192 pages. ISBN: 9788416273485 VV. AA.
(2012), Developing Writing Skills in Spanish. London and New
York: Routledge. 372 pages. Hardback ISBN: 9780415590822. Paperback ISBN:
9780415590839. [Digital copy available from UCL library]. *Students are required to get a copy of each book and are expected to bring them to their respective classes. Reference Grammar
(recommended):VV. AA. (2011,
2013), A New Reference Grammar of Modern Spanish. 5th Edition.
Oxon y Nueva York: Routledge. 608 pages. ISBN: 9781444137699. [Digital copy
available for temporary download from UCL library, and permanent on-line
viewing from UCL library].VV.AA. (2011), Practising
Spanish Grammar. 3rd Edition. London: Routledge. 248
pages. ISBN: 978-1444137705 [Digital copy available from UCL library].Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Intermediate Level (level 5) Total Learning Hours: 150  Term/s: Term 2 Tutor: Dr
Gareth WoodTeaching structure: La
Regenta is a substantial novel, 900 pages in length in most 
editions. This module will therefore spend the first half of the term 
reading the novel in
stages and looking in detail at how the action develops. In the second 
half of
term, we will move on to discuss the novel in its social and cultural 
context,
engaging in close reading and examining the critical discourses that 
have grown
up around the novel. Background lectures will provide the necessary 
contextual
detail and seminars will allow for class discussion and the sharing of 
ideas.Assessment: One
3000-word coursework essay (40%) and a two-hour desk exam (60%).Module Description: In
this module we shall be reading and analysing the novel La Regenta
(1884-85) by Leopoldo Alas. Writing under the penname ‘Clarín’, Alas was the
most famous literary critic in Spain at the time he published La Regenta.
He had gained a reputation as a scathing cultural commentator but La Regenta
surprised many of his contemporaries for the sensitivity with which it depicted
a troubled young woman’s search for happiness and a stable identity in a
provincial Spanish city. Her name is Ana Ozores, a woman who endures a troubled
childhood as the poor relation of an aristocratic family which has fallen on
hard times. Still a young adult, she finds herself married to Don Víctor Quintanar,
an aged and impotent former judge, but increasingly torn between sexual desire
for Don Álvaro Mesía, the local lothario, and a yearning to explore her
spiritual life guided by her confessor, Fermín de Pas. It is her struggle with
the competing claims of duty, lust, and spirituality that forms the central
thread of the novel. Because
he was reading and reviewing much of the new fiction published in Spain and
abroad, Alas was well placed to respond to the latest developments in the
European novel. La Regenta can therefore be considered as a novel written
in response to the Naturalist techniques Émile Zola was pursuing at this time.
However, it is regarded today as both one of the best psychological portraits
of a female protagonist in nineteenth-century fiction and one of the most
biting social satires.Please note that this Term 2
module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination. 

Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: The
edition of La Regenta we shall be using is in two volumes: Leopoldo Alas, La Regenta, ed. by Gonzalo Sobejano, 2
vols (Madrid: Castalia, 1983 [or subsequent reprints]). It would be helpful if you could get hold of a
copy of this edition for use in class.
A detailed bibliography of secondary sources will be provided 
via moodle and in class.
    Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(SPAN2109A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The module takes place at the same time as SPAN2109.)Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Intermediate Level (level 5)  Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term/s: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Maria Chiara D'ArgenioAssessment: SPAN2109: one essay (40%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (60%). In the exam,
students must answer questions on texts not studied for the coursework essay.
SPAN2109A:1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module Description: This module will introduce you to a range of work by
a number of women writers from the Southern Cone and the Andean region. The
module will begin with a consideration of the principal issues at stake in
approaching the topic of women’s writing (e.g. can writing be gendered? Is
there such as thing as a women’s language?), in the course of which you will be
equipped with the relevant vocabulary and conceptual framework necessary for
this enterprise. During the rest of the module you will study a range of works
in different genres including novel, short story, essay and poetry. Issues to
be considered throughout the module in relation to the texts studied will
include: questions of language, style and form; thematic concerns such as
identity, family, nationhood, modernity and ‘race’; and the writers’ and works’
relationship to broader historical contexts of literary production.Preparatory reading and set texts:General background readingPlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Intermediate Level (level 5)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term/s: Term 2Tutor: Dr Claire Lindsay.Assessment: one essay (40%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (60%).Module Description: This course will introduce you to a range of work by a number of
women writers from Mexico and the Hispanic Caribbean region.
The course will begin with a consideration of the principal issues at
stake in approaching the topic of women’s writing (e.g. can writing be
gendered? Is there such as thing as a women’s language?), in the course
of which you will be equipped with the relevant vocabulary and
conceptual framework necessary for this endeavour. During the rest of
the course you will study a range of work in different genres, typically including the novel, essay and short story. Issues
to be considered throughout the course in relation to the texts studied
will include: questions of language, style and form; thematic and social concerns
such as identity, family, nationhood and ‘race’; and the writers’ and
works’ relationship to the literary canon and to broader historical
contexts of literary production.Please note that this Term 2
module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination. Preparatory reading and set texts: books you will need to buy/or have your own copy of include the following. The above are recommended editions but others may be available and acceptable - please check with the course convenor.  Background readingPlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Intermediate Level (level 5)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term/s: Term 2Tutor: Dr Deborah MartinAssessment: one essay (50%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (50%).Module Description:This module will introduce students to a broad range of periods and
styles in Latin American cinema, and to concepts in film theory. It will
explore thematic questions of nationhood, politics, gender and sexuality, as
well as questions specific to cinematic and visual representation.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: Films Initial Secondary
BibliographyPlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Intermediate Level (level 5)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Tyler Fisher Assessment: 3000 word coursework essay (40%), unseen two-hour written examination (60%). Module Description: This module introduces
students to a range of literature written by and about the Spanish Inquisition
in Spain and the Spanish colonies. The module considers ‘literature’ in the
broadest sense, in an historicist approach (ranging from the Inquisitors’
regulatory memoranda to conventional stage plays). Beginning with the founding
documents that set the Inquisition in motion, and ending with the polemical
pamphlets that argued for and against its abolition, we read these texts in
their social and historical contexts, as literature that shaped and was shaped
by the institution. While not exonerating or in any way excusing the
Inquisition’s abuses, the module challenges facile, reductive assumptions about
its nature and effects. Proceeding chronologically, we reconsider the
Inquisition as a continuously evolving socio-political phenomenon, within
which, and in spite of which, artful textual production took place across
nearly 350 years of Spanish history.The
course tutor convenes and facilitates lectures and seminars. All course
information will be made available via Moodle, as well as many of the primary
texts for lectures and seminars. You may start reading for this module before
classes begin. Key readings are marked with an asterisk in the list of texts.Preparatory
Reading and Set Texts: Helen Rawlings, The Spanish Inquisition (2006). Instrucciones, the inquisitors’ own procedural rules
and regulations. Fray
Luis de León, selected Odes. Lazarillo de Tormes, the expurgated chapters.  *Juan
Ruiz de Alarcón, Quien mal anda en mal
acaba. selected
Elogios by Sephardic Jews (1655). *Luis
Gutiérrez, Cornelia Bororquia, o La
víctima de la Inquisición, ed. Gérard Dufour.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(SPAN2400A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The module takes place at the same time as SPAN2400.)Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Intermediate Level (level 5)  Total Learning Hours: 150  Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Adrian PearceAssessment: SPAN2400: Two 2,000-word essays (each weighted at 50%).
SPAN2400A:1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module Description:This module covers the history of Latin America during three of the five
centuries that have elapsed since the Iberian conquests, a period that shaped
the region in fundamental ways and endowed it with enduring characteristics. It
thus addresses questions such as: why do Mexico or Peru have large indigenous populations
today, while Cuba or Argentina do not? Why do so many people of African descent
live in Cuba or Brazil, but so few in Guatemala or Uruguay? Or why are there
eighteen Spanish-spealing republics, but just one (vast) Portuguese-speaking
one? The course covers political, social, economic, and cultural aspects, and
devotes attention to both the Spanish and Portuguese colonies, while also
following closely the history of Spain and Portugal themselves during this
period.Early sessions discuss the Spanish conquest, for which historical debate
is almost as hard-fought as were the wars for Mexico and Peru between
conquistadors, Aztecs, and Incas; the collapse over the following century of
native populations throughout the Americas, and its lasting implications; the
so-called spiritual conquest and the distinctive religious tradition to which
it gave rise, based on the melding of traditions or religious syncretism;
gender relations and attitudes to sexuality, with a focus on women; and forced
labour systems, with emphasis on African slavery as it developed in the New
World context.After reading week, we begin with a session on the colonial economy,
based above all on silver mining at places such as Potosí in Bolivia or
Zacatecas in Mexico, and the fleets of galleons that united Iberia with the
colonies across the Atlantic. We then devote two classes to relations between
Spain and Portugal and the Americas: the first to the place of the colonies
within the Iberian global empires, and to shifting relations between colonies
and metropolises; and the second to the imperial policies and strategies
developed in Madrid and Lisbon in response. The final two sessions look at
native resistance to colonial rule during the eighteenth century, above all in
the Andes, and finally the complex processes that led to Independence after
1800.Indicative
Bibliography (a full bibliography will be distributed at
the start of the course)General historiesAndrien, Kenneth (ed.), The Human
Tradition in Colonial Latin America 2nd ed. (Lanham, MD., 2013).Burkholder, Mark, and Lyman Johnson, Colonial
Latin America 8th ed. (Oxford, 2012).Restall, Matthew, and Kris Lane, Latin
America in Colonial Times (Cambridge, 2011).Primary source collections in EnglishBoyer, Richard, and Geoffrey Spurling (eds.), Colonial Lives: Documents on Latin American History, 1550-1850
(Oxford, 1999).Mills, Kenneth, and William Taylor (eds.), Colonial Latin America: A Documentary History (Lanham, MD., 2002).Schwartz, Stuart, Early Brazil: A
Documentary Collection to 1700 (Cambridge, 2009).Selected key studiesAndrien, Kenneth, Andean Worlds:
Indigenous History, Culture, and Consciousness under Spanish Rule, 1532-1825
(Albuquerque, NM., 2001).Cook, Noble David, Demographic
Collapse: Indian Peru, 1520-1620 (Cambridge, 2004).Crosby, Alfred, The Columbian
Exchange: Biological and Cultural Consequences of 1492 (Westport, CONN.,
2003).Elliott, John, Spain, Europe, and
the Wider World, 1500-1800 (New Haven, CONN., 2009).Klein, Herbert, and Ben Vinson III, African
Slavery in Latin America and the Caribbean 2nd ed. (Oxford,
2007).Maxwell, Kenneth, Conflicts and
Conspiracies: Brazil and Portugal, 1750-1808 (New York, 2004).McFarlane, Anthony, War and
Independence in Spanish America (New York, 2014).Paquette, Gabriel, Enlightenment,
Governance, and Reform in Spain and its Empire, 1759-1808 (New York, 2008).Restall, Matthew, Seven Myths of
the Spanish Conquest (Oxford, 2004).Russell-Wood, A. J. R., Society and
Government in Colonial Brazil, 1500-1822 (London, 1992).Gonzalbo Aizpuru, Pilar, Los muros
invisibles: Las mujeres novohispanas y la imposible igualdad (Mexico City,
2016).Stein, Stanley, and Barbara Stein, Silver,
Trade, and War: Spain and America in the Making of Early Modern Europe
(Baltimore, 2000).Walker, Charles, The Tupac Amaru
Rebellion (Harvard, MASS., 2014).Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Intermediate Level (level 5)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Adrian PearceAssessment: Two 2,000-word essaysModule Description:This module concerns the extraordinary history of Spain in the twentieth
century. Over the past hundred years, the country has fought a brutal civil war,
and experienced among the most stable and enduring of European dictatorships;
toyed with republicanism, before re-establishing itself as a monarchy; and undergone
a democratic transition regarded as a model around the world, to then
experience several decades of the “Spanish miracle”, of rapid economic growth
and growing soft power. Most recently, the country has seen the political and
economic model established during the transition come under strain, through
unresolved tensions over fundamental questions of governance and national
identity. All of this, while undergoing social change of unprecedented rapidity,
that has given the country much of its distinctive feel in recent times.We begin by providing the necessary context, with a session devoted to
Spain´s turbulent nineteenth century. Successive classes then look at the
period to the 1930s, marked by colonial wars in Africa and the strange dictatorship
of Miguel Primo de Rivera; the Second Republic from 1931 to 1936, as a period
of growing social and political tension and violence; and the catastrophe of
the Civil War itself, which became an archetype of the horrors of internal
strife and a mirror of broader European trends during W. H. Auden´s “low,
dishonest decade”. The final class before reading week focuses upon the
dictatorship of Francisco Franco that followed, and its political, social, and
economic consequences across several decades until Franco´s death in 1975.Later sessions begin with a discussion of Spain´s remarkable transition
to democracy in the late 1970s and early 1980s, long considered perhaps the
most successful process of its kind. We then discuss the period from the 1980s
to the 2000s, of integration with Europe, economic boom, and cultural
florescence, that seemed to crown a remarkable period of national reinvention
and success. A further class discusses the specific case of Catalonia, as a window
on to regional nationalisms in contemporary Spain and a key test for the current
democratic settlement. Finally, the last two classes look, first, at social
change in Spain since the 1970s, from the movida
madrileña to mass immigration, and secondly, at Spanish international
relations across the period since the Second World War.Indicative
Bibliography (a full bibliography will be distributed at
the start of the course)General historiesFusi, Juan Pablo, Historia Mínima de España (Madrid, 2012).Phillips, William, and Carla Rahn Phillips, A Concise History of Spain (Cambridge, 2010).Ross, Chris, Spain since 1812:
Modern History for Modern Languages 3rd ed. (London, 2009).Primary source collections in EnglishAyrton, Peter (ed.), ¡No Pasarán! Writings from the Spanish Civil War (London, 2016).Cowans,
Jon (ed.), Modern Spain: A Documentary
History (Philadelphia, 2003).Selected key studiesAlvarez Tardío, Manuel, and Fernando del Rey
Reguillo (eds.), The Spanish Second
Republic Revisited: From Democratic Hopes to Civil War (1931-1936) (Brighton, 2013).Balfour, Sebastion, and Paul Preston (eds.), Spain and the Great Powers in the Twentieth Century (London, 1999).Crameri, Kathryn, Goodbye, Spain? The
Question of Independence for Catalonia (Brighton, 2014).Gillespie, Richard, and Caroline Gray (eds.), Contesting Spain? The Dynamics of Nationalist Movements in Catalonia
and the Basque Country (Abingdon, 2015).González Rodríguez, Juan Jesús, and Miguel Requena (eds.), Tres décadas de cambio social en España
(Madrid, 2012).Hooper, John, The New Spaniards
2nd ed. (Harmondsworth, 2006).Ortega Ruiz, Manuel, Felipe
González: La ambición que cambió España (Madrid, 2015).Preston, Paul, Franco: A Biography
(London, 1993).Preston, Paul, The Spanish Civil
War: Reaction, Revolution, and Revenge (London, 2006).Romero Salvado, Francisco, Twentieth
Century Spain: Politics and Society in Spain, 1898-1998 (New York, 1999).Townson, Nigel, Spain Transformed:
The Late Franco Dictatorship, 1959-75 (New York, 2010).Tremlett, Giles, Ghosts of Spain:
Travels through a Country´s Hidden Past (London, 2012).Tussell, Javier, Spain: From
Dictatorship to Democracy (Oxford, 2012).Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Intermediate Level (level 5)
 Total Learning Hours: 150  Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Alexander SamsonTeaching structure: Assessment: one 3000 word essay (40%); one unseen two-hour written examination (40%); one group project (20%).Module Description:The module will trace the development of commercial theatre in early 
modern Spain from its medieval origins in church performances and Corpus
 Christi celebrations, to its heyday in the 17th century. The theatre 
was the first truly popular cultural form of the modern world and 
attracted its audiences from all levels of society. Our discussions will
 focus around a number of themes including: power, anti-theatricalism, 
representations of kingship, honour, gender and cross-dressing, race, 
the New World, sexuality, the Don Juan myth and sumptuary law.Please note that this Term 2
module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:The editions listed here are merely recommendations. 
Cátedra or Castalia editions of any of the plays are fine. Just make 
sure your edition has line numbers. There are also an enormous number of
 comedias freely available online through either the Comedia website or the Association for Hispanic Classical Theatre.  • Miguel de Cervantes, La Numancia,
Alfredo Hermengildo (ed.) (Madrid, Castalia, 1994). • Tirso de Molina, El burlador de
Sevilla, Alfredo Rodríguez López-Vázquez (ed.) (Madrid, Cátedra, 2000). • Lope de Vega, Lo fingido verdadero,
M.T. Cattaneo (ed.) (Roma, Bulzoni, 1992). • Calderón de la Barca, Pedro, La vida es sueño, José M Ruano de la
Haza (ed.) (Madrid, Castalia, 1994). Background reading: • Ignacio Arellano, Historia del teatro
Español del siglo XVII (Madrid, Cátedra, 1995). • José María Díez Borque, Sociedad y
teatro en la España de Lope de Vega, Antoni Bosch (ed.) (Barcelona, Bosch
Editorial, 1978). • Emilio Cotarelo y Mori, Bibliografía
de las controversias sobre la licitud del teatro en España (Madrid, Revista
de Archivos y Museos, 1904). • Melveena McKendrick, Theatre in
Spain, 1490 - 1700 (Cambridge University Press, 1989). • Jeremy Robbins, The Challenges of
Uncertainty: An Introduction to Seventeenth-Century Spanish Literature
(London, Duckworth, 1998), Section VI - Forming and Performing Identity, pp.
117 - 131. • J. M. Ruano de la Haza and John J.
Allen, Los teatros comerciales del siglo XVII y la escenificación de la
comedia (Madrid, Editorial Castalia, Nueva Biblioteca de Erudición y
Crítica, 1994). • Alexander Samson and Jonathan Thacker
(eds.), A Companion to Lope de Vega (London, Tamesis, 2008).  • N. D. Shergold, A History of the
Spanish Stage from Medieval Times to the end of the Seventeenth Century
(Oxford, Clarendon, 1969). • Edward Wilson and Duncan Moir, A
Literary History of Spain: The Golden Age: Drama 1492 - 1700 (London,
Ernest Benn Ltd, 1971). • Jonathan Thacker, A Companion to
Golden Age Theatre (London, Tamesis, 2007).Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				DUTC4001 - Dutch Language 3DUTC4201 – Making Modern Dutch LiteratureDUTC4205 - Contemporary
Culture and History of the Low CountriesDUTC4502A - Advanced
Translation (from Dutch into English)DUTC4901 - Project in Dutch  FREN4001 - Use of French FREN4002 - French Oral FREN4003 - French Essay FREN4004 - Advanced Translation FREN4005 - Translation I FREN4006 - Translation II FREN4104 - Writing the Self in Post-War France: Aspects of Life-Writing FREN4105 - Dominating Texts: Literary Power Relations in 20th Century Writing FREN4107 - Jean-Paul Sartre: Novels and Other Writings FREN4115 - Legendary Histories FREN4118 - Oriental Encounters  FREN4119 - Realism: Looking Awry in Nineteenth-Century France FREN4209 - Cultures of AIDS in France: History, Policy and Representation  FREN4212 - The Swiss New Wave FREN4214 - Reading Tintin  FREN4217 - Fiction and the Archives FREN4218 - The Front National and Far Right Politics in France FREN4219 - Discourses of Equality FREN4311 - Topics in Modern French HistoryGERM4001 - Modern German LanguageGERM4001A - Modern German Language (Term1)GERM4001B - Modern German Language (Term2)GERM4002 - Discussion and
Essay in German GERM4103 - Wolfram von Eschenbach's 'Parzival' GERM4125 - Austrian LiteratureGERM4126 - Recording Revolt: 1967 in Germany and afterGERM4127 - German Fiction and German HistoryGERM4129 - Language, Power
and Ideology GERM4131 - Modern German ArtGERM4133 - Reading Modern
Novels GERM4141 - German Literature
and Psychology GERM4144 - Black GermanyGERM4145 - SurveillanceGERM4146 - EmpathyITAL4040 - Final Year Italian LanguageITAL4102 - Nation, Culture
and SocietyITAL4127 - Identity and Performance in Renaissance Italy ITAL4909 – The Contemporary Italian NovelITAL4914 – Memory and History in Twentieth Century ItalyITAL4926 - Marriage and Divorce Italian Style (1861-1975)ITAL6001/6002/6004 - English Academic Writing and Translation Skills (for Italian Affiliates only)SCAN4001 - Advanced DanishSCAN4002 - Advanced SwedishSCAN4003 - Advanced NorwegianSCAN4006 - Advanced Project Work in Danish, Norwegian or SwedishSCAN4007 - Translation from
the Scandinavian LanguagesSCAN4201 - Dissertation in
Scandinavian StudiesSCAN4202 - Crime and Small
Communities in Nordic LiteratureSCAN4401 - Advanced Old NorseSCAN4402 - The Vikings in EuropeSCAN7006 - Nordic Landscapes in text, image and soundSCAN7203 - Extended Essay in
Scandinavian StudiesSCAN7214 - Vikings and
Valkyries in Contemporary CultureSCAN7310 - Nordic Politics
and Society, 1990s and After SCAN7405 - Viking-Age Scandinavia SCAN7540 - Nordic CinemaSPAN4001 - Spanish Language
IIISPAN4112 - Latin American Vanguard
MovementsSPAN4115 - The Literary World of J.L. BorgesSPAN4117 - The Works of Cervantes Part ISPAN4304 - Spanish Film from the 1990s: New Ways of Seeing(ii)SPAN4307 - Cultural Dilemmas IISPAN4308 - The City in Latin American CultureSPAN4400 - Topics in Spanish and latin American HistorySPAN4408 - The Battle for Memory
in the Contemporary Spanish Novel: Part I, The Transition to DemocracySPAN4411 - Childhood in Latin American CinemaSPAN4414 - The Andean World of J.M. ArguedasSPAN4415 - Reading and Writing Spanish Microfiction





 



These modules are compulsory for those on the 'with Portuguese' diets, 
and then available to single honours students (subject to availability).PORT4010 - Advanced PortuguesePORT4420 - Portugal and its Empire in the 20th Century: Trajectories and MemoriesPORT4421 - Short Fiction and the Making of Modern Brazil   These modules are not available to joint honours students. HIST6410 - History of Latin America c.1830-c.1930  Please note - this 1.0cu module is subject to availability (please be aware the History
department may not be in a position to approve/reject requests until the Friday
before the week teaching commences) and approval from the SELCS UG Tutor.  
Guidance on registering for History modules.LCUL4001 – Dissertation in Language and
CultureThe Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 1 Tutor: Professor Andrew LeakAssessment: One 3-hour desk exam (weighting 100%).Module Description: This module focuses on what is sometimes called the ‘early Sartre’: the
 period from the publication of Sartre’s first novel to the end of World
 War Two – the moment at which ‘existentialism’ took off as the dominant
 intellectual vogue of the post-war period. The module includes two 
novels, a book of short stories, a play
 and a text written to ‘explain’ existentialism to the general public. 
Students following the module will, by the end of it, be thoroughly 
conversant with one of the most significant intellectual movements of 
the twentieth century, and with its manifestations in a range of 
literary genres and forms.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2 Tutor: To be confirmed Assessment: 1 assessed essay (50%) and a two-hour desk examination (50%) Module Description:This module will look at a key period, event or theme in modern French history (1789
onwards) and will also develop students’ understanding of historical
methodologies to an advanced level. Students will study key historical
developments of the Francophone world with a view to understanding the social,
political and cultural landscape of modern France. They will also develop tools
for historical analysis and research-based learning. By the end of the module, they will have a detailed
understanding of the principles of historical method, particularly source
interpretation and the presentation of an informed argument, and will have
developed these skills to a high standard in the assessed work. Students are
not expected to have studied history before to be eligible to take this module. More details regarding bibliography and course content will be made available during Term 1. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0
course units / 15 ECTS PG Value: 30 UCL credits / 30 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 300Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2
 
 Tutor: Linda van AbelTeaching Structure:This module is available
 to both Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten 
two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in 
which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: one
unseen three-hour written examination (40%); one oral assessment (15%); and
written coursework/problem papers (45%).PG Assessment: one
unseen three-hour written examination (50%); one oral assessment (25%); and
written coursework/problem papers (25%).Module Description:The module aims for students
to become critical intercultural users of Dutch in both spoken and written
form. Students are prepared for the complexity of communication in a fast
changing global and multicultural world. The course provides practice in
language used in work and social situations by emphasising the contextual
demands of audience, aim and genre in a wide range of communicative situations.
Work in class and homework tasks concentrate on developing awareness of
stylistics especially in relation to the contexts of situation and culture. In addition, this module
encourages students to develop their own ‘voices’ and see to what degree this
could be adopted or altered depending on the needs of the context of the
communicative task. Grammar and vocabulary work
are an integral part of all language tasks. Grammar points are discussed in
class where and when needed, but students will also be expected to self-correct
and apply their grammatical knowledge in revising their drafts.  Home work
tasks are an important part of the course, as they help to develop the
necessary skills. These tasks are also assessed in a Language PortfolioAttention is paid to
creativity, as well as to issues affecting the world of work and business.
Tasks range from writing creatively in several genres, e.g.  travel
reports/blogs/memoir and (semi)-professional (e.g. journalistic articles,
presenting coherent  and convincing oral and written arguments, writing
formal letters and e-mails, debating and so on. Students will also design,
prepare and teach a listening class to their fellow students. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:TBC Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSPG Value: 30 UCL credits / 15 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 2 
 
 Tutor: Hans DemeyerTeaching Structure:This module is available
 to both Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten 
two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in 
which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: two 3000 word essays, weighted equally.PG Assessment: two 3000 word essays, weighted equally.Module Description:This module provides students with the opportunity to study writers 
whose work has had a major impact on the modern literary canon. The module looks at the institution of Dutch literature from the 
mid-nineteenth century until today. There will be a number of case 
studies of individual authors taken from different periods and 
representing literature from the Netherlands and Flanders. Currently 
these authors are Carry van Bruggen, Hugo Claus and Cees Nooteboom.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:The Literary FieldCarry van BruggenHugo ClausPlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSPG Value: 30 UCL credits / 15 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)
Term: Term 2 Tutor:  Ulrich TiedauTeaching Structure:This module is available to both Final 
Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: the best three out of four 1500 word essays (100%)PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%)Module Description:In the period since the Second
World War there have been many changes in the societies and cultures of the Low
Countries. This module looks at four important areas of change from a
historical perspective and will deal with the history and culture of Women,
Immigrants, Space, and Memory in the Low Countries, from the 19th
century onwards. The module will look at how current concerns can be traced
back in Dutch society and provide students with a deeper knowledge of Dutch
culture and society as well as important theories related to the key topics.
This module builds on the first and second year core modules DUTC1301- Communities and
Identities in the Low Countries and DUTC2301- Investigating Cultures and offers an opportunity to
further develop cultural analysis concepts, skills and techniques while
exploring selected topics of contemporary Dutch and Belgian history and
culture.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:There is no set textbook for this module. Readings and handouts will be provided in class and on Moodle.
 However, you may find the following textbook, a standard history of the
 Low Countries, useful for background information (copies of which are 
held in the College library):Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSPG Value: 30 UCL credits / 15 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (UG)Term: Term 1 Tutor: Christine SasTeaching structure: A one-term module taught in weekly two-hour classes which consist of a translation workshop and reflection on translation. Final-year undergraduate students study alongside MA students who are following the graduate version of this course.MA students have four 
additional tutorial hours in which to extend and deepen their 
exploration of the subject.UG Assessment:  100% coursework, normally consisting of an annotated translation and an essay or commentary.PG Assessment: One 4,000-word essay (50%) and one 1,000 translation (50%). Module Description:An advanced translation module combining reflection on the translation process with regular exercises in translating from Dutch into English covering a variety of text types. Students learn to develop a translation strategy, analyse texts for translation and translated literary texts, and are encouraged to develop their own approach to translation. Time is also devoted to practical skills such as editing and proofreading, accessing a range of printed and electronic lexicographical and bibliographical resources.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Links to online resources will be provided in the Moodle site for this module.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.  The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSPG Value: 30 UCL credits / 15 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 1 
 
 Tutor: Christine SasTeaching Structure:This module is available
 to both Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten 
two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in 
which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: one 4,000 word Essay - 100%PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay - 100%Module Description:A project written in Dutch on an approved topic in an area of Dutchliterature, linguistics, modern history, society or culture. The module consists of three elements:If possible, depending on student interests, students work on shared projects. The projects cover specific aspects of the modern Low Countries. They involve collaborative research and coordination of activities as part of project management. The project report is a substantial composition in Dutch offering an in-depth exploration of a particular topic.This module offers final year or affiliate students the opportunity to study a topic in depth, that is not currently covered by other modules in the Department of Dutch.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Jann Matlock Assessment: two assessed 3,000 word essays (50% each)Module Description:  “There is
a very dangerous thing in literature,” wrote one of Balzac’s critics in 1847,
“and that is the excess of truth.” Like many critics of the mid-nineteenth
century, this one worried that novelists were unveiling things one might simply
not want to see. What he called the “incessant, merciless observation”
of the “physiological” novelists came increasingly to be labelled by other
critics as a “realist” vision that endangered literary and social values. Twentieth
century critics--among them Lukács, Auerbach, Barthes, and Jameson--have given
us retooled notions of what served, in the nineteenth century, as a label of
denigration. We take for granted today that the nineteenth century novel
tradition includes something we might call “realist” and that the visual
avant-garde of the mid-nineteenth century might best be grouped under that
label.  This
module sets out to re-examine those premises, in particular, by looking at the
material conditions for the definition of “realism” in the nineteenth century.
Through readings of contemporary press criticism of the novel and painting, we
will try to reposition the concept of realism. Through discussions of
nineteenth-century theories of vision we will elaborate a different framework
for thinking about the realist gaze. Student presentations will develop new
ways of thinking about nineteenth-century observation and the visual and
literary realms it engaged. Topics to
be considered: Realism as a critical concept; “realism” in Stendhal and
Delacroix and the tragedies of history; Balzac and vision; the social novel;
women “realists”?; the reception of Courbet and Manet; censorship and the
realist novel; naturalism, the morgue, and the ends of realism; and
photography’s real. Novels by Stendhal, Balzac, Sue, Flaubert, and Zola.
Painting, photography, 19th-century criticism, and contemporary theoretical
texts also to be considered.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Full yearConvenor: Ms Marie FournierTutor: Various Assessment: one twenty-five minute oral examination (100%). Satisfactory 
completion of the coursework is normally a prerequisite for examination 
entry. In the examination, which reflects the module content, students will be 
required to give a summary of a text in French (which they will receive a
 few days before the examination) and answer questions showing an 
analytical response to this text. They are also required to give a 
presentation on and discuss a topic of their own choice (the topic must 
not overlap with material on which students have been or will be 
examined in other parts of their module).Module Description:This final-year core module aims to encourage fluency in responsive and discursive forms.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 1 and Term 2Tutor: Professor Andy LeakAssessment: one unseen three-hour written exam (100%). Satisfactory completion of the coursework is normally a prerequisite for examination entry.Available to: Compulsory for single-subject students. This module is also available to francophone Modern Language, Modern Language Plus and ESPS students who wish to take this instead of FREN4002 - French Oral (see note for FREN4002- French Oral). The module is not available to combined-subject students.Module Description:This final-year module is compulsory for single-subject students and recommended for Erasmus students.  This module is concerned with the translation from French into English of literary texts, both in poetry and in prose. The aim is to provide students with the techniques required for this challenging form of translation and to give them the opportunity, on a weekly basis, to apply those techniques to a range of literary texts. To this end, students will make translations of prose passages and of short lyric and prose poems; they will also write extended ‘translation commentaries’ that focus on those aspects that were most problematic and/or interesting for the translator. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Thibaut RaboinAvailable to: The module is designed primarily for SELCS affiliate students but other students, including other affiliates from ART or other faculties, may be allowed on the course subject to availability of places and approval from the students' home departments. The areas covered will not overlap with those of FREN4006.Assessment: Coursework - 3 translation assignments (30%, 30%, 40%) Module Description:The module involves the translation of non-literary text from French into English. Broad areas that will be covered:- Journalistic (e.g. features, reportage (incl. headlines), faits divers, small-ads, horoscopes, sports reporting etc.)- Technical ( ‘New Scientist’ type popular science, manuals and various ‘modes d’emploi’, catalogues and specifications)- Consumer-oriented (this overlaps with all of the above: e.g. promotion masquerading as travel-writing, the performance specs of cars, electrical goods, advertisements of all kinds etc. etc.)Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Thibaut RaboinAvailable to: The module is designed primarily for SELCS affiliate students but other students, including  other affiliates from ART or other faculties, may be allowed on the module subject to availability of places and approval from the students' home departments. The areas covered will not overlap
 with those of FREN4005.Assessment: Coursework - 3 translation assignments (30%, 30%, 40%) Module Description: The module involves the translation of non-literary text from French into English. Broad areas that will be covered:- Academic Writing (articles, monographs, abstracts, ‘pitches to publishers’, research projects outlines)- Political Discourse (posters, banners, speeches etc.)- Cultural Journalism (book and film reviews etc.)Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 credits Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG) Term: Term 2 Tutor: James AgarTeaching Structure:This module is available to both
 Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (100%)PG Assessment: coursework (100 %) Module Description:This module will address a range of aesthetic, political or
theoretical issues which arise from the practice of modern ‘life-writing’.
Attention will be given to the particular socio-historical contexts of textual
production in order to ascertain what differences and similarities there might
be between the practice of ‘writing the self’ in and between the set texts. We
will also consider the implications of the practice of reading ‘life-writing’:
does this mode of writing invite and/or impose an unwritten contract on the
reader?; how might reading soi-disant ‘literary’ texts be modified by
theoretical issues/texts (and vice versa)?; what issues of authenticity,
believability and trust are aroused through reading ‘life-writing’?; can
‘life-writing’ be categorised as a specific genre?; what are the formal and
thematic differences between autobiography, memoir or diary, fiction and autofiction? We will also address
differences which might be reflected in ‘life-writing’ through, for example,
gender, sexuality and class and will discuss the relations between life, death
and art, writing and identity, memory and the conscious and unconscious self.
In addition to the set literary texts, there will be substantial reading
required of additional non-literary texts (provided on moodle). Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 credits Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (UG) Term: Term 2Tutor: Professor Mairéad HanrahanTeaching Structure:This module is available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (100%).PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%)Module Description:This module will focus in depth on the first volume of the novel which perhaps morethan any other work dominated French literature in the twentieth century, Proust’s Ala recherche du temps perdu, before studying texts by a number of other importantwriters who wrote in Proust’s wake. Domination inevitably implies a power struggle;at the heart of the questions the module will explore is the relationship betweenliterature and power. By means of close textual analysis, we shall examine how theprescribed texts all thematise domination in some form, notably with regard to socialand sexual relations. Sometimes they universalise it, suggesting that intersubjectiverelations are necessarily hierarchical; sometimes they explore the possibility ofsubverting it, beckoning towards a mode of relation that need not involve thesubmission of one element to another, positing the existence of a non-subordinatingdominance, a dominance that does not dominate. The texts also raise questions ofintertextual
 domination: what makes for a specifically literary power? is beauty a 
form of power? does a very powerful text overshadow others, or on the 
contrary call them into being in response to its appeal? Finally, the 
seminars will discuss the power relationship between reader and text: is
 a powerful text precisely one that can never be mastered? And, if 
reading is not an exercise in domination, what is it?Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 credits Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG) Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Jane GilbertTeaching Structure:This course is available to both
 Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG assessment: one 3,000-word essay (50%) and one unseen 90-minute written examination (50%).PG assessment: one 6,000-word essay (100%)Module Description:According to H. E. Bates’s famous dictum, ‘The past is
 another country – they do things differently there’. In this module, we
 shall look at how our medieval past presented its past, and 
particularly at the ways in which – like us, but differently from us – 
medieval people interwove history with legend. We shall read works in 
which the inhabitants of the past appear almost superhuman – and are 
sometimes literally inhuman – in their greatness and terror. ‘We’ the 
readers may consider ourselves heirs to this greatness, or well rid of 
this terror, or both. Moreover, all the texts that we shall study have 
been extremely significant in the construction of European identities 
both national and international. We shall investigate some of the uses 
made of these texts by medieval writers, readers and patrons, looking at
 their subversive potential as well as their propaganda value. In each 
case, legend inserts an uncanny quality into the histories that 
contemporaries construct around themselves. Robert
 de Boron’s Merlin is a short prose romance, the centre of a trilogy 
tracing the story of the Holy Grail and of Arthur’s dominion, thus 
entwining the history of Britain with the cosmic Christian story. At its
 heart is the half-demon Merlin, a figure from Celtic myth with a 
mysterious ability to shapeshift and to know all events past, present 
and future. Merlin and the Grail rapidly went on to become central yet 
troubling figures within European historiography, and retain some of 
that status even today. Although modern Europe may
 consider its birthplace to be Ancient Greece, medieval people thought 
that Europeans represented a Trojan diaspora. Every country had its own 
descent myth, inspired ultimately by Virgil’s Aeneid, and considered its
 chief city a ‘New Troy’. We shall read extracts from the mighty verse 
romance known as the Roman de Troie. The Troie presents the public and 
private upheaval of the Trojan War, including the fall of Troy and 
foundation of Western Europe on the one hand, and the many private 
tragedies on the other: Paris and Helen, Troilus and Criseyde, Achilles 
and Polyxena, and so on. A prequel to Virgil, the Troie details what for
 medieval people was the mother, pattern and explanation of all 
subsequent European and world wars. Finally, the 
verse Roman d’Alexandre follows the fortunes of the man who conquered 
the whole of the known world – including many parts known only by 
hearsay and, frankly, unlikely. In this romance Alexander also flies, 
takes a trip in a submarine, and visits ‘the marvels of the Orient’. 
Alexander was the exemplary medieval king: brave, generous and learned. 
He was an inspiration to would-be conquerors. Equally importantly, his 
biography presented medieval readers with natural and artificial 
marvels, offering them powerful experiences of exoticism and alterity 
that could not be subdued. The Alexandre presents the history of 
humanity and of the empire of the world as unChristian and alien. We 
shall read most of the Alexandre (minus the ‘Fuerre de Gadres’ episode),
 thus bringing it down to manageable length.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Further
 preparatory reading is available on request, however students’ main 
task is to familiarise themselves with the set texts.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2Tutor: To be confirmedTeaching structure: SeminarsAssessment: 1 assessed essay of 3000 words (50%) and a two-hour desk examination (50%).Module Description:This course explores the tradition of the Voyage to
the Orient (17thC-19thC). The study of cultural encounters has emerged in
recent years as a privileged field for re-thinking fundamental questions about
problems of perception, human subjectivity and identity. Starting with French
early-modern explorations of India, we will examine issues of gender, sexuality
and religious beliefs and practices intersected with perceptions of the exotic
East. We will then read extracts from Raynal’s Histoires des Deux Indes; Pierre Loti’s
account of Egypt; and Flaubert’s Voyage
en Orient, thus exploring the means and modes of European
colonisation, while testing the limits of an orientalist discourse. We will end
with a critical reading of the opening chapter of Claude Levi-Strauss’ Tristes Tropiques,
ominously entitled ‘La fin des voyages’. 
Travel writing has been a growing area in recent scholarship. This module will
also offer the opportunity to explore key notions and theories: Orientalism,
cultural relativism and cultural pluralism, historicism and post/colonialism,
while focusing on the experience of the traveller without ruling out or
oversimplifying the process of ‘knowing the other’. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Initial Secondary Bibliography:Ames, Glenn J. and Love, Ronald S., Eds., Distant Lands and Diverse Cultures: The French Experience in Asia, 1600-1700. Westport, Connecticut: Praeger, 2003.Behdad, Ali, Belated Travelers: Orientalism in the Age of Colonial Dissolution. Duke UP, 1994. Clifford, James, Writing Culture: the Poetics and Politics of Ethnography, ed. with G. Marcus. University of California Press, 1986.Elsner, Jaś, and Rubiés, Joan-Pau, Eds., Voyages and visions: towards a cultural history of travel. London: Reaktion Books, 1999.Forsdick, Charles (as much for the introduction and bibliography as anything): in New Approaches to Twentieth-Century Travel Literature in French: Genre, History, Theory. New York: Peter Lang, 2006.                                                                          Claude Lévi-Strauss, ‘La fin des voyages’, in Tristes Tropiques. Presses Pocket. (Digitised and available on Moodle via the Reading List link)Porter, Dennis, Haunted Journeys: Desire and Transgression in European Travel Writing. Princeton University Press, 1991.Said, Edward, Orientalism. Penguin Books, 1991.The Cambridge Companion to Travel Writing, eds Peter Hulme and Tim Youngs (2002; 2006) and Écrire le voyage, G. Tverdota ed. Paris: Presses de la Sorbonne nouvelle, 1994.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 credits Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG) Term: Term 1  Tutor: James AgarTeaching Structure:This module is available to both
 Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG assessment: two assessed 3000 word essays (50% each).PG assessment: two assessed 3500 and 4000 word essays.Module Description:This module will examine the development of representations and debates aroundAIDS
 in France from the early 1980s to the close of the twentieth century. 
The module will take a broadly cultural studies approach and, through 
the analysis of political and sociological texts, will examine the role 
of French medical research in the isolation and naming of the 
virus/disease and the development of French government policy toward the
 disease in terms of prevention campaigns and political rhetoric. We 
shall also study, in depth, a range of ‘literary’ and filmic texts which
 address the issue of AIDS and debates around AIDS. The module will 
address a range of themes related to these interlinking areas: 
government policy versus non-government sponsored AIDS activism in 
France; the setting up and development of self-help organisations; 
issues related to gender and (gay) sexuality; the individual and 
different notions of community; the politics of representing and 
‘reading’ AIDS. Although the focus will be on AIDS in France, comparison
 will be made with other countries and cultures in order to highlight 
some of the ideological and political inflections specific to AIDS in 
modern France.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:‘Literary’ textsFilmic texts (viewings will be arranged)History and policyPlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Roland-François LackAssessment: two assessed 3,000 word essays (50% each).Module Description: This module will provide an introduction to filmmaking in 
French-speaking Switzerland by concentrating on important works by 
Michel Soutter and Alain Tanner from the moment of the Swiss New Wave 
(1966-72), viewed in relation to later work from the ‘70s by these and 
other Swiss filmmakers (Claude Goretta, Patricia Moraz, Yves Yersin and 
Jean-Luc Godard). Alongside considerations of form, we shall focus 
on recurrent thematic preoccupations in these films, including the 
city/country opposition, the idea of Swissness and questions of gender 
representation. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: Primary films: Secondary reading and viewing matter will be recommended at a later date.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 1 Tutor: Marie FournierAssessment: one 3000-word essay (50%) and one two-hour desk examination (50%).Module Description:The module introduces students – with no necessary prior knowledge of the genre – to the study of the bande dessinée
 form, through the close study of six works in the Tintin collection of 
Belgian author Hergé (Georges Prosper Rémi). Readings of Hergé’s texts 
will be undertaken from a variety of critical perspectives: historical, 
post/colonial, narratological. Students will become familiar not only 
with the primary texts but also with relevant secondary materials 
dealing with the graphic quality of the texts and the modes of 
articulation of text and image.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Thibaut Maus de RolleyTeaching structure: SeminarsAssessment: 2 assessed essays (50% each) of 3000 words each.Module Description:We will examine in this module three famous criminal cases from the early modern period, and the series of texts that each of them generated: (i) the ‘affaire Martin Guerre’ (1560), a case of imposture and stolen identity in sixteenth-century southwestern France; (ii) the trial of Louis Gaufridy, a priest burnt at the stake in 1611 for having allegedly caused the demonic possession of two young nuns in Aix-en-Provence; (iii) the brutal assassination of a young and rich aristocrat, the Marquise de Ganges, by her two brothers-in-law (1667). We will read and discuss a wide range of (short) accounts of these three faits divers: manuscript court records, popular pamphlets, collections of histoires tragiques and causes célèbres, and a short novel (by the Marquis de Sade). But we will also look, beyond the early modern period, at 
modern reconstructions of these stories offered by historians and 
filmmakers – eg. the 1982 film Le Retour de Martin Guerre, and Natalie 
Zemon Davis’s historical study of the case (1983).The study of these stories of imposture, witchcraft, and murder in cold blood, will allow us to approach essential aspects of early modern social and legal history, and to explore the many forms taken in the early modern period by a thriving littérature du crime, at the intersection of law and literature. It will also be an opportunity to analyse in depth the processes of 'rewriting' that turn the archival account of a legal case into a well-crafted story, and a historical document into 'literature.'Set Primary Material:I. L'affaire Martin Guerre (Weeks 1-4)II. L'affaire Gaufridy (Weeks 5-7)III. La Marquise de Ganges (Weeks 8-10)A bibliography of secondary literature will be provided at the beginning of the course.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 Term: Term 2Tutor: Professor Philippe MarlièreAssessment: 2 assessed essays (50% each) of 3000 words eachModule Description:This final year module offers an in-depth study of the Front National and far right politics in contemporary France. It starts by mapping out the origins and different strands of thought within the French far right from the late 19th century onwards. It aims to identify the core values and ideas of the far right, as well as the extent to which it forms a consistent political ideology. Then, the course concentrates on the Front National (FN), the most successful far right party in contemporary France. It pays attention to the FN’s most underlying political features; its sociological transformation over time, notably from the mid-1980s up to now. Other aspects of the study include: sociology of party membership and electorate, and main policies and ideas. The module eventually addresses more topical issues such as: is the FN still a “far right” party or has it morphed into a more mainstream party of the “national right”, as Marine Le Pen insists on? Are FN policies compatible with the French constitution and republican polity? Is it pertinent to label the FN a “populist” or “national populist” party?This is an option which is suited to students who wish to deepen their knowledge of French politics and engage with French political science literature.Preparatory Reading:Cécile Alduy,
Stéphane Wahnich, Marine Le Pen prise aux mots, Paris, Seuil, 2015.Ariane Chebel
d’Appollonia, Les Frontières du racisme. Identités, ethnicité, citoyenneté,
Paris, Presses de Sciences Po, 2011.Sylvain Crépon,
Enquête au cœur du nouveau Front National, Paris, Nouveau Monde, 2012.Alexandre Dézé,
Le Front national: à la conquête du pouvoir?, Paris, Armand Colin,‎ 2012.Valérie Igounet,
Le Front national de 1972 à nos jours. Le parti, les hommes, les idées, Paris,
Éditions du Seuil, 2014.Nonna Mayer, Ces
Français qui votent Le Pen, Paris, Flammarion, 2002.James Shield, The Extreme Right in France: From Pétain to Le
Pen, London, Routledge, 2007.Zeev Sternell, La
Droite révolutionnaire: les origines françaises du fascisme, Paris, Seuil,
1978.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 credits Level: Advanced Level (level 6) Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG) Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Kevin InstonTeaching Structure:This module is available to both Final 
Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: 2 assessed essays (50% each) of 3000 words eachPG Assessment: 1 assessed essays of 6000 words Module Description:The question of how we define equality, who counts as equal or whether a society can be completely egalitarian in its organisation preoccupies democratic politics and political theory. Does equality imply totally identical levels of material wealth and chances? Or does it entail the equal right to cultural or social differences? Are freedom and equality compatible? How do individuals considered unequal demand equality without simply inverting hierarchical relations or replicating them by granting others the authority to decide if they count as equal or not? This module will explore these questions through a range of philosophical, anthropological and political writings. We begin with Rousseau’s Discours de l’inégalité which refutes any natural or divine foundation for social inequalities and affirms universal freedom and equality as the most legitimate basis for social organisation. That refutation underlies Abbé Sieyès’s influential revolutionary pamphlet that calls for equal political representation in government for all orders in French society. We shall then explore the anti-colonial writings of the anthropologist Michel Leiris and Simone de Beauvoir’s foundational feminist essay Le Deuxième Sexe. The module closes by looking at Jacques Rancière’s recent and original theory of active equality: equality is not something that is distributed or ensured by social institutions but is always declared and demonstrated by those who are not counted as equal by their communities.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:*Photocopies to be provided by tutor. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 1 and Term 2
Tutor: VariousTeaching Structure:This module is available to both Final 
Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (100%)PG assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (100%)Module Description:This is an enhanced final year / MA language module in
translation from and into German. It enhances understanding of idiom,
style and register, and develops advanced language mediation skills. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1Tutor: Dr Barbara LesterTeaching structure: The module entails translation from and into English,
covering 2 hours per week. 
Assessment: Continuous coursework assessment throughout the term.Available to: Affiliate students.Module Description:This is an enhanced final year module in translation from and into German. The material used  is taken from literary works and
journalistic texts, reflecting different styles of writing, old and modern, and
varying linguistic registers. All material can be accessed via Moodle.Depending on context, background information will be given,
of a political, historical or cultural nature, as deemed necessary and
appropriate. Brief discussion of topics encouraged if wanted by students. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Barbara LesterTeaching structure: the module covers 2 hours per week.
Assessment: Continuous coursework assessment throughout the term.Available to: affiliate students.Module Description:This is an enhanced final year module in translation from and into German. The material used  is taken from literary works and
journalistic texts, reflecting different styles of writing, old and modern, and
varying linguistic registers. All material can be accessed via Moodle.Depending on context, background information will be given,
of a political, historical or cultural nature, as deemed necessary and
appropriate. Brief discussion of topics encouraged if wanted by students.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 1
Tutor: Dr Sebastian CoxonTeaching Structure:This module is available to both Final 
Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay (50%); and one unseen
two-hour examination (50%)PG Assessment: one assessed 6,000 word essay (100%)Available to: Final Year students and MA studentsModule Description: Wolfram von Eschenbach is
acknowledged to be one of the greatest poets of the German Middle Ages, perhaps
the greatest, and as a narrative writer he can stand comparison with Chrétien
de Troyes, Dante and Chaucer. Parzival, an adaptation of Chrétien’s
Arthurian and Grail romance Le Conte du Graal, is a work of astonishing
depth and complexity which is further distinguished by a forceful and
interventionist narrator-figure who engages in lively debate with his subject
matter and above all with his readers (or listeners). The module will focus on the
medieval German text of Parzival in its entirety. We will refer to
Wolfram’s treatment of his French source (of which passages may be read in
English translation) and will set him in his historical context - literary,
political, social and religious. Topics to be covered will include narrative
strategies, codes and techniques; history and fictionality; ideologies of
chivalry and nobility; gender; courtly culture; religious belief. Set Text: Wolfram von Eschenbach: Parzival,
on the basis of Karl Lachmann’s 6th ed., with introduction by Bernd Schirok and
translation by Peter Knech (Berlin / New York, 1998) ‘Parzival’: Wolfram von
Eschenbach, translated by A. T. Hatto (London, Penguin Classics, 1980). Preparatory
Reading: · Joachim Bumke, Wolfram von Eschenbach, 8th
ed. (Stuttgart, Sammlung Metzler 36, 2004). · D. H. Green, The Art of Recognition in Wolfram’s
‘Parzival’ (Cambridge, 1982). · Timothy McFarland, ‘The Emergence of the German
Grail Romance. Wolfram von Eschenbach: Parzival’, in: The Arthur of the
Germans: The Arthurian Legend in Medieval German and Dutch Literature, eds
W. H. Jackson and S. A. Ranawake (Cardiff, Arthurian Literature in the Middle
Ages 3, 2000) pp. 54-68. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 1
Tutor: Dr Judith BenistonTeaching structure: This course is available
 to both Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten 
two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in 
which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG assessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay (50%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (50%). PG assessment: one assessed 6 000 word essay (100%) Module Description:In Austria the period
between approximately 1890 and 1938 was not only one of enormous political
upheavals (the collapse of the Habsburg Empire, the founding of the First
Austrian Republic, and its subsequent annexation to Nazi Germany), it was also
a time of intense cultural and intellectual ferment. Focusing on key works of
the Fin de siècle and of the interwar period, this course will explore
some of the distinctive preoccupations of Viennese modernism — sexuality and
the gendered self, aestheticism, and Sprachkrise — as well as examining literary
responses to questions of national identity and cultural tradition. Preparatory reading and
set texts:  Electronic versions of these texts are available. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Code: GERM4126Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
Level: Advanced Level (Level 6)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: term 2
Tutor: Dr Mererid DaviesAssessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay (50%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (50%)Module Description:The
1960s protest movements marked an astonishing moment for West Germany. They
developed a political critique, but above all they are distinctive for their
overwhelming emphasis on culture and the symbolic. In particular, reading and
writing had unique prestige for protesters, who produced an extraordinary writing
culture which was by turns polemical, witty, provocative, reflective and
offensive. This module explores some key literary and filmic works of the
period, in order to offer a detailed account of this culture of revolt and its
aftermath.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Film viewings will be arranged in the
department for the films to be studied. In most cases they are also available
for you to borrow via UCL Main Library if you’d like to view them
independently. Where it is noted that copies or extracts from texts will be
provided, these will be made available via Moodle.  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)
Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 2
Tutor: Dr Sebastian CoxonTeaching structure: One two-hour
seminar per week in Term II. 
Assessment: 1 assessed essay (50%); 1
two-hour exam (50%) Available to: Final Year students Module Description:
Grimmelshausen effectively launched the picaresque novel
as a literary form in Germany in the seventeenth century. His main works, which
were written as a cycle (the so-called ‘Simplicianische Schriften’), are
masterpieces of satire and gross comedy. Simplicissimus
(1668-1669) and Courasche (1670) are
fictional autobiographies chiefly set in the Germany of the Thirty Years War.
In telling their often bawdy and obscene stories the first-person narrators of
these works explore the impact of war and social conditioning on their lives
and the lives of their contemporaries. Springinsfeld
(1670) tells the story of a character who features both in Simplicissimus and in Courasche,
and Simplicissimus and Courasche feature in turn as characters in
Springinsfeld’s narrative, so that the two later novels expand and comment on Simplicissimus to produce one of the
most fascinating and dynamic fictional worlds that German literature has to
offer. The Simplician cycle is concluded with two further novels, Parts I and
II of Das wunderbarliche Vogelnest
(1672; 1675), which constitute further experiments in narrative voice and
literary comedy.In addition to examining the problem of the relationship
between fiction and history, the module will aim to introduce students to a
variety of approaches towards the analysis of pre-modern narrative. The
emphasis throughout will be on close reading of the text(s) and students will
be expected to develop a good knowledge of the Simplician cycle as a whole.Preparatory Reading
and Set Texts:· Grimmelshausen:
Der abenteuerliche Simplicissimus, ed. by Volker Meid, Stuttgart 1996etc
(Reclam 761)· Grimmelshausen:
Courasche, ed. by Klaus Haberkamm and Günther Weydt, Stuttgart 2001etc
(Stuttgart: Reclam 7998)· Grimmelshausen:
Springinsfeld, ed. by Klaus Haberkamm and Günther Weydt, Stuttgart 1976 etc
(Reclam 9814)· Hans Jacob
Christoffel von Grimmelshausen: Simplicissimus Teutsch, ed. by
Dieter Breuer, Frankfurt 2005 (Grimmelshausen Werke I:1)· Hans Jacob
Christoffel von Grimmelshausen: Courasche; Springinsfeld; Wunderbarliches
Vogelnest I und II; Rathstübel Plutonis, ed. by Dieter Breuer, Frankfurt 2007
(Grimmelshausen Werke I:2) Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of 
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the 
academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				PG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS UG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 1
Tutor: Dr Geraldine HoranTeaching Structure:This course is available
 to both Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten 
two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in 
which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG assessment: one assessed 2,500 
word essay (50%) and one take-home paper (50%). In addition to this, 
students will be required to give a short presentation on one aspect of 
the module topics. PG assessment: one assessed 3 000 word essay (50%) and one take-home paper (50%). In 
addition to this, students will be required to give a short presentation
 on one aspect of the module topics. Module Description:The module will examine the complex relationship 
between language, power, and ideology in Germany society, and will trace
 how language has been employed in the twentieth and twenty-first 
centuries by individuals, groups, organisations, and institutions to 
exercise power and to communicate a particular ideology or world-view. 
During this module, we will address a variety of linguistic topics and 
issues, including political discourse, defining 'propaganda' or 
'ideological language'; the misuse and abuse of language; the nature of 
linguistic groups; language planning. The analysis of primary texts will
 draw upon aspects of linguistic theory, including sociolinguistics, 
pragmatics, discourse analysis, and semantics.The module will focus in particular on the following topics:Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:General introductionLanguage and fascismLanguage and communismGroup discourses, identity and powerLanguage of media/advertisingPlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) / 300 (PG)Term: term 2
Tutor: Professor Mark HewitsonTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. UG Assessment: two 2,500 word essays (50% each)PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%)  Module Description:This module investigates painters' reactions to 
modernity during the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. 
Through the study of some of the most remarkable works of the modern 
avant-garde, and critical reviews of such works, students are encouraged
 to re-evaluate how the Academy, Symbolists, Expressionists and the 
artists of the Neue Sachlichkeit movement defined and reacted to the 
characteristics of the modern age. The module aims to introduce students
 to the history of art and ideas, and to complement modules in modern 
history, film and literature.Module outline1. Introduction: History of Art and Cultural History.2. Academy, Symbolism, and Secession: History, Myth, and Nation.3. Expressionism (i): Die Brücke.4. Expressionism (ii): Der Blaue Reiter.5. Dada and Neue Sachlichkeit: The Insanity of Reality.[READING WEEK]6. Bauhaus and Abstract Art: Form, Function, and Spirituality.7. The Self: Psychology and Art.8. War and the Art of Violence.9. Women and Men: Constructions of Gender.10. Metropolis: City, Nature, and Society.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Methodology and Theories of Art HistorySurveys of Art and Culture in Germany Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 2
Tutor: Reinier van StratenTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG assessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay (50%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (50%). **PG assessment: one assessed 6,000 word essay (100%).Module Description:This module looks at three major twentieth-century novels in detail. All
 three books explore the problem of interpretation and raise questions 
about how reality can be understood and represented. In each novel the 
narrative technique is a crucial tool for undermining the reader’s 
expectations, both in relation to specific historical events and in 
relation to the process of textual interpretation itself. The books 
challenge our desire for clarity and explanation in an era when the 
category of truth has been profoundly relativized.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please buy and read the following three set texts
before the autumn term begins:  ** Please note that this module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits /0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 2
Tutor: Dr Martin LiebscherTeaching Structure:This module is available
 to both Final Year students and MA students.  All students attend ten 
two-hour seminars. MA students have four additional tutorial hours in 
which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: two assessed 2500 word essays (50% each)PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%)Module Description:This module examines the interaction between
psychology and German literature in the late nineteenth and early twentieth
centuries. We will analyse a selection of literary texts that have either been
inspired by psychological findings or have been the subject of psychological
interpretations. This will not only give an insight in the psychological
theories of literature, but also help to understand the formation of psychology
as a science in the second half of the nineteenth century and the crucial role
literature played for the development of psychoanalysis around 1900. At the
same time, the module will investigate some of the ways in which psychoanalytic
and psychotherapeutic theories influenced the work of major writers such as
Arthur Schnitzler, Stefan Zweig and Hermann Hesse.Preparatory texts: Set texts :MA module in addition:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 postgraduate creditsLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) /300 (PG)Term: Term 2
Tutor: Dr Jeff BowersoxTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars taught in English consisting of lectures,
class discussions, and student presentations. MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. Moodle to be used as a repository
for reading materials as well as for preparatory assignments, and MyPortfolio
to be used as a platform for building a website. Students will also engage in
three webchats with students at the Universities of Michigan and Missouri to
discuss course material and themes.  UG Assessment: One web research project, 5,000 words (100%)PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%)Note: Students taking this module cannot take ELCS4030Module description:This module examines
the development of an African diaspora in Germany from the Renaissance to the
present-day, with emphasis on the dramatic shifts in regimes of the past 200
years. Along with surveying contexts in which Africans and their descendants
came to German-speaking lands, we will consider the diverse ways in which they
have shaped and been shaped by a society that variously tolerated, rejected, or
accepted them on specific terms. By paying due attention to transnational
contexts, the module will complicate ideas of a single black experience as well
as a monolithic and consistent idea of “Germanness.” Preparatory
texts and set reading:Bechhaus-Gerst and
Klein-Arendt (eds.), Die (koloniale) Begegnung. AfrikanerInnen in
Deutschland 1880-1945 – Deutsche in Afrika 1880-1918 (2003).Bindman and Gates (eds.), The Image of the Black in
Western Art, 5 vols. (2010-2014).Campt, Other Germans: Black
Germans and the Politics of Race, Gender, and Memory in the Third Reich
(2005).Chebu, Anleitung zum Schwarz
sein (2014).Debrunner,
Presence and Prestige: Africans in Europe. A History of Africans in Europe
before 1918 (1979).Diedrichs
and Heinrichs (eds.), From Black to Schwarz: Cultural Crossovers between
African America and Germany (2011).El-Tayeb,
Schwarze Deutsche. Der Diskurs um “Rasse” und nationale Identität 1890-1933
(2001).Göttsche,
Remembering Africa: The Rediscovery of Colonialism in Contemporary German
Literature (2013).Grimm and Hermand (eds.), Blacks
and German Culture (1986).Heyden and Arnold, Unbekannte
Biographien. Afrikaner im deutschsprachigen Raum vom 18. Jahrhundert bis zum
20. Jahrhundert (2008).Hine, Keaton, and Small (eds.), Black
Europe and the African Diaspora (2009).Höpp (ed.), Fremde Erfahrungen.
Asiaten und Afrikaner in Deutschland, Österreich und in der Schweiz bis 1945
(1996)Hondius,
Blackness in Western Europe: Racial Patterns of Paternalism and Exclusion
(2014).Honeck, et al. (eds.), Germany
and the Black Diaspora: Points of Contact, 1250-1914 (2013).Jensen (ed.), Africans in Europe: A Bibliography
(2002).Lindfors
(ed.), Africans on Stage: Studies in Ethnological Show Business (1999).MacMaster, Racism in Europe,
1870-2000 (2001).Martin, Schwarze Teufel, edle
Mohren. Afrikaner in Geschichte und Bewußtsein der Deutschen
(2001).Martone (ed.), Encyclopedia of
Blacks in European History and Culture (2009).Mazon and Steingröver
(eds.), Not So Plain as Black and White: Afro-German Culture and History,
1890-2000 (2005).Opitz,
et al. (eds.), Farbe bekennen. Afro-deutsche Frauen auf der Spur ihrerer
Geschichte (1986).Paul, Kulturkontakt und Racial
Presences: Afroamerikaner und die deutsche Amerika-Literatur, 1815-1914
(2005).Pieterse, White on Black:
Images of Africa and Blacks in Western Popular Culture (1995).Raphael-Hernandez (ed.), Blackening
Europe: The African-American Presence (2003).Rosenhaft and Aitken (eds.), Africa
in Europe: Studies in Transnational Practice in the Long Twentieth Century
(2013).Rosenhaft and Aitken, Black
Germany: The Making and Unmaking of a Diaspora Community, 1884-1960 (2013).Sollors (ed.), An Anthology of
Interracial Literature: Black-White Contacts in the Old World and the New
(2004).Sow, Deutschland Schwarz
Weiss. Der alltägliche Rassismus (2009).Wright, Becoming Black:
Creating Identity in the African Diaspora (2003). Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 postgraduate creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 1Tutor: Dr Annie RingTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. Moodle to be used as a repository for reading and viewing materials.Formative assessment: formatively-assessed presentations followed by attendance at at least
one office hour in the term, at which students will receive feedback on their
presentation and on a bullet point essay plan.UG Assessment: One 5,000-word essay (100%)PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%)Module Description:In this module we will explore the problem and the promise of surveillance in German-language culture in the twentieth and twenty-first centuries.* Students will encounter crucial and often opposing theories of the forms surveillance can take, and test the applicability of those theories to the changing representations of surveillance in primary works in German. The theoretical approaches and primary works handled in the module will give a grounding in the contributions that German-language culture has made to discussions of how surveillance forms behaviour, as we consider the narratives and images that have emerged in the light of–and as responses to–surveillance.*MA candidates are welcome to draw on German-language works
published before 1900 in their research essays, subject to tutor’s advice. Preparatory reading
and set texts: Simone Browne, Dark Matters: On the Surveillance of
Blackness (Duke University Press, 2015) Gilles Deleuze, ‘Postscript on the Societies of Control’,
various editions. Franz Kafka, Der Proceß, various editions. Harun Farocki, dir. Bilder der Welt und Inschrift des
Krieges (Germany, 1989) Michel Foucault, Discipline and Punish: The Birth of the
Prison (London: Penguin, 1991) Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck, dir. Das Leben der Anderen
(Germany, 2006) Christian Petzold, dir. Barbara (Germany, 2012) Ilija Trojanow & Juli Zeh, Angriff auf die Freiheit:
Sicherheitswahn, Überwachungsstaat und der Abbau bürgerlicher Rechte (Munich:
Hanser, 2009) Cornelia Vissmann, Akten: Medientechnik und Recht (Frankfurt
a/M: Fischer 2000) Set texts for weekly
seminars – see Moodle.  Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 2 
Tutor: Dr Annie RingTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. Moodle to be used as a repository for
reading and viewing materials Formative assessment: formatively-assessed
presentations followed by attendance at at least one office hour in the term,
at which students will receive feedback on their presentation and on a bullet
point essay plan.UG Assessment: One 5,000-word essay (100%).PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%)   Module Description:   In this module we will
critically explore the notion of empathy in works of modern German-language
culture and thought. For Hannah Arendt, isolation is a condition in which
totalitarianism can easily take hold. An emotion that can reduce isolation is
empathy. Yet despite its potential for connection and understanding, empathy is
much harder to inspire than hatred toward the other, as certain key events in
modern German history suggest. Can cultural texts incite empathy, and is it
desirable for them to do so? What are the risks attendant on the empathic draw
of texts and philosophies? Students taking the module will develop the skills
to analyse and evaluate a range of texts, including films, which seek to incite
empathy or a critique of empathy in their audiences.   Preparatory reading and set texts: Arendt, Hannah, ‘Ideology and
Terror: A Novel Form of Government’, in The Origins of Totalitarianism (1951),
multiple editions. Breithaupt, Fritz, Die dunklen
Seiten der Empathie (Frankfurt a.M.: Suhrkamp, 2017) Farocki, Harun, dir., NICHT
löschbares Feuer (FRG, 1969) Feldmann,
Maximilian and Luise Schröder (dir.), Valentina (Germany and Macedonia, 2016) Heidegger, Martin, ‘Das
In-der-Welt-sein als Mit- und Selbstsein. Das »Man«’ in Sein und Zeit (1927),
multiple editions. Von Trotta, Margarethe (dir.) Die bleierne Zeit (FRG, 1981) Set texts for weekly seminars – see Module page on UCL MoodlePlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course units / 15 ECTS Level: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 300Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2 Tutors: variousTeaching structure: Students will attend a total of 3 hours per week.Module Description:This is a mandatory module for all students who are studying Italian in any Modern Languages and Modern Languages Plus combination, as well as for Italian BA students. The module presupposes successful completion of ITAL2020 Second Year Italian Language and of the Year Abroad Programme.  The aims of the module are: to develop a high level of knowledge of Italian as a medium of understanding, communication and expression; to develop the understanding of the structure of Italian and of the historical and sociocultural contexts in which it has developed and it is used; and to study Italian as a gateway to other areas and subjects (literature, history, philosophy etc) and possibly further study at postgraduate level. Please note that a thorough knowledge of basic Italian grammar is a prerequisite for this course.Assessment: 1. One unseen 3-hour written examination (75%). The three questions of the written paper are:2. One oral examination (25%). ESPS students who are registered for ITAL4002 Final Year Italian Language for ESPS students (0.5cu) will do a one-hour written exam consisting of an essay (50%) and an oral exam (50%).Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Essay/Oral/GrammarPlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 2
 
 Tutor: Professor John 
DickieTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. UG Assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (100%).PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%)Module Description:The module’s central themes are national identity and
nation-building in Italy
between Unification and the First World War. The first seminars are taken up by
a theoretical and historical discussion of nations and nationalism, and by
preparatory study of the state of Italian society in 1860. The main body of the module comprises topics that may include the following: education and children’s
literature; crime and criminal anthropology; political culture; feminism;
opera; patriotic monuments; Italian cuisine; Futurism; the South; the
Giolittian state. A representative work is studied for each topic, along with a
wide range of historical and theoretical material. Students are therefore
expected to know the set works in detail, to engage with new theoretical
concepts, and to develop a good understanding of the central questions related
to the issue of national identity in Liberal Italy.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Lisa Sampson Teaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. UG Assessment: one written commentary of
2000 words (40%), and an assessed essay of 3000 words (60%) PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%) Module Description:This
module explores perceptions of identity in Renaissance Italy, bringing recent
perspectives to the compelling thesis of Renaissance man’s individuality in
Burkhardt’s foundational The Civilization
of the Renaissance in Italy (1860). The focus is especially on how identity
could be construed, or socially, politically, and culturally constructed, by
individuals or groups, through theatre and the rich culture of the princely
courts. We will examine Castiglione’s Il
cortegiano (1528), which provides a subtle portrait of the court of Urbino
and of the multifarious roles played by the ideal courtier. Theatrical works by
Bibbiena, Ariosto and comici dell’arte will provide a further basis
for exploring the complex dynamics involved in ‘self-fashioning’, from dress
and leisure pursuits to more challenging issues of imitation and dissimulation.
Students will explore the aesthetics and ethics of performance, debates on
nobility, linguistic issues, class and political identity, gender play, and
also attitudes to sociability and humour. 
The study of theatrical texts will allow students opportunities to
engage practically in class with issues of performance.  A theatre visit will be programmed depending
on availability.Set
texts· Baldassarre Castiglione, Il cortegiano (any edition)· Bibbiena (Bernardo Dovizi), La Calandria (1513) (any edition) · Ludovico Ariosto, La Lena (1528) (any edition)· Flaminio Scala, Il teatro delle favole rappresentative [1611], ed. by Ferruccio
Marotti (Milano: Il polifilo, 1976) (selected commedia dell’arte scenarios) [See
The Commedia dell'arte of Flaminio Scala:
a translation and analysis of 30 scenarios, ed. and transl. by Richard
Andrews (Lanham, Md.: Scarecrow Press, 2008)]Preparatory background reading· Cox, Virginia, A Short History of The Italian Renaissance (London: I.B. Tauris,
2016), ch. 4 ‘Identity and the Self’, ch. 5 ‘Renaissance Man’· Martin, John Jeffries, Myths of Renaissance Individualism (Basingstoke: Palgrave
MacMillan, 2004)· Woodhouse, J. R., Baldesar Castiglione.
A Reassessment of the Courtier (Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press,
1978)· Anglo, Sydney, ‘The Courtier: The
Renaissance and Changing Ideals’, in The
Courts of Europe: Politics, Patronage and Royalty,
1400-1800, ed. A. G. Dickens (London, 1977) · Andrews, Richard, Scripts and Scenarios: the performance of comedy in Renaissance Italy
(Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1993)· Farrell, Joseph, and Paolo Puppa, eds, A History of Italian Theatre (Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 2006), Part II ‘The Renaissance’ Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Enrico 
PalandriTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. UG Assessment: One 5,000-word essay (100%)PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%)Module Description: Since the middle of 
the twentieth century the Italian novel has undergone profound transformations. 
Each generation of writers tends to take certain themes as its own and to 
establish stylistic trends: neorealism, experimentalism, new narrativity, ‘I 
cannibali’. Within each generation important alliances are formed with 
publishing houses and newspapers, new literary magazines are founded, the map of 
Italian society is redrawn. These groupings tend to be abandoned once individual 
careers have been established. Each new generation of writers unfailingly 
accused the older one of provincialism, of being too tied to the national 
tradition. Occasionally, however, unexpected alliances appeared between young 
writers and others fifty years older ‘I nuovi narratori’ and Morante, Moravia, 
Bilenchi; ‘I cannibali’ and ‘Gruppo 63’. The module will examine these changes 
in relation both to generational differences and to the individual careers of 
the authors themselves.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Novels from the bulk of the bibliography. However, some texts are 
offered as historical and theoretical support. The following is a small 
selection of the novels referred to in the lectures. Students are welcome to 
propose other texts by the same authors. A longer list of novels and other works 
will be supplied to students taking the module. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150
Term: Term 1  Tutor: Dr Eleanor ChiariAssessment: two 
assessed 3000 word essays (50% each), one in-class presentation.Module Description:This module aims to 
provide an extensive introduction to themes related to the study of memory, 
memories and history with reference to twentieth-century Italy. Drawing on 
recent discussion in history and anthropology, the module begins with a study of 
methodology before moving on to more specific case studies in various periods of 
Italian history.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Carlotta Ferrara degli UbertiTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. UG Assessment: One 3000 word essay (50%) and one desk examination (50%)PG Assessment: One 6,000-word essay (100%) Module Description:The concept, size and functions of the European family have changed
during the XIX and XX century, in relation to the rapid mutations in political,
social and economic structures. But they have also been influenced by the
process of secularization, the evolution of medical science, then the
dissemination of valid methods of contraception. The module will focus on the evolution
of conceptions, representations and practices of marriage in Italy from a
legal, political and cultural perspective. The debate on the possibility of
introducing divorce in the Italian legal system will be followed from the
Unification until the referendum of 1974. Topics will include: representations
of the family, evolution of gender roles, representations of women, feminism,
the influence of Catholicism and Catholic parties, propaganda, the changing
attitude toward sexuality. Primary sources such as legal documents, literary
materials, films, documentaries, illustrations will be properly contextualized
and analyzed.  Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS (ITAL6001 or ITAL6004) 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTS  (ITAL6002)Level: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150 (ITAL6001 or ITAL6004) / 300 (ITAL6002)Tutor: Andrew Campbell (essay writing) and others (translation)Available to: Affiliate students who are native speakers of Italian.Teaching structure: Whole Year (ITAL6002) / Term 1 only (ITAL6004) / Term 2 only (ITAL6001).•  Time: Thursday 15.00-16.00 or 16.00-17.00 (essay writing) and Wednesday 13.00 - 14.00
 or Thursday 13.00 - 14.00 (translation from Italian into English
and vice versa).•  Student contact
hours: 20 one-hour classes (10 translation, 10 essay-writing) in each term. Assessment: No
dictionaries or any reference material are allowed in examinations.•  ITAL6001/6004: one two-hour written paper consisting of the following two
questions: Translation into English and Essay
in English•  ITAL6002: one three-hour written paperStudent workload: Regular
written assignments will be set by the module tutors, to be handed in by the
deadlines specified. Work handed in after the deadlines will not normally be
marked. Submission of at least 70% of this coursework is required for admission
to the examination.Module Description:This module gives
students practice of translation from Italian into English and vice versa, and
of essay writing in English.For the translation
classes, Affiliate students are allocated to the Final Year language groups (ITAL4040) to
work on a range of texts. One half of each term is spent working on translation
from English into Italian, the other half on translation from Italian into
English, with different tutors. Students are encouraged to reflect on and
discuss problems inherent in the practice of translation.The
essay-writing classes focus
on the discussion of topics on which the students will write essays. There will
also be scope for discussion of issues generated by the translation classes. Students
will engage with different registers and styles of English texts (such as
journalistic, formal, popular song, academic and poetry) and different varieties
of English (such as regional dialects, slang, and idiomatic phrases). The
module also includes a small component of revision of English grammar, and an
analysis of the skills required to write a short essay in English, such as how
to marshal and present arguments.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0
course units / 15 ECTS Level: Advanced Level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 300Tutor:  Dr Eleanor ChiariTeaching structure:  The dissertation takes the shape of independent
research under the guidance of a supervisor. It is expected that the student
and supervisor will meet 4 times over the course of the project to discuss its
progress.Assessment: One 10,000 words dissertation (100%).Module Description:The purpose of the dissertation is to provide
students with the opportunity to pursue independent and in-depth research on a
subject of choice. It allows students to specialize in an area according to
individual prospective career paths or intellectual interests. The dissertation
demonstrates a student’s ability to produce a substantial piece of written
work, and enhances the skills required to do this: analysis and synthesis,
clarity of thought, conciseness, organization and time management. The topic of
the dissertation must fall within the discipline range of the BA Language and
Culture. It may relate in general terms to the subject area of a module in the
degree but it must not replicate work already done on a particular
module(including Year-Abroad projects). The topic may be cross-disciplinary
and/or multi-lingual in nature, or link two areas for comparison. The topic is
subject to the approval of the Programme Convener who will also assist the student
in finding an appropriate supervisor in one of the departments linked to the
Programme. A dedicated Moodle site will be available for consultation,
containing guidance and relevant general materials.  The module aims: Intended learning
outcomes:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
30
UCL credits / 1.0 course units / 15 ECTS  Level: Advanced level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 300
 Term/s: Full YearTutor: Dr Joana Rita RamalhoTeaching structure: The class meets 4
hours per week in two 2-hour classes. The teaching is divided into four main
components: Oral, Grammar, Translation into Portuguese and
Translation into English. Other skills, such as listening and
reading comprehension and writing skills, are included in each of the four
components.Assessment: Final Desk Exam with components of Grammar, Translation into
Portuguese and Translation into English (50%); Oral Exam (20%); Coursework (30%). The
coursework consists of two grammar quizzes, two oral presentations,
two writing exercises, two translations into Portuguese and two translations
into English. The breakdown for coursework marks is 3% for each
component.Module Description:This module is designed
for students who have had exposure to Intermediate Portuguese (PORT2010) and,
typically, spent several months in Brazil, Portugal or another Lusophone
country on their Year Abroad. Native speakers of Portuguese may be present in the classroom.
The module is aimed at developing speaking, reading, writing and translating
skills in Portuguese to an advanced level of ability and help students gain
further insight into aspects of the culture of Portuguese-speaking
countries. Proficiency in Portuguese is consolidated at Level B2 of the
Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR), with some aspects
of Level C1 also explored. You will expand your vocabulary and learn to use increasingly
complex sentences and structures, as well as idioms, expressions and colloquialisms. Both the Brazilian and European
Portuguese varieties are covered, and aspects of Luso-African and Luso-Asian
culture will be explored. Students are encouraged to establish connections with
the materials studied on final-year PORT content modules. By the end of the module, we expect students
to be fluent in one of the world’s most widely spoken languages, and highly
skilled in translating literary and non-fiction texts in a variety of
registers. Course materials:Your tutor will make use of a combination of online
resources, grammars, textbooks and other materials. The following are the most
important books used on the course: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.  The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 credits Level: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150
(UG) / 300 (PG)Term/s: Term 2 Tutor: Zoltan BiedermannTeaching structure: lectures including screenings, discussions and
possibly student presentations (3hrs per session)UG assessment: one 2,500 word essay (40%); and one 3,000 word essay (60%)PG assessment: one 6,000 word essay (100%)Module Description:This module explores the colonial and post-colonial cultural
production of the Lusophone world in the 20th and 21st
centuries. The first third of the course engages with Portugal, its empire
under the Salazar regime, and how it appropriated the Luso-tropicalist theories
of the Brazilian sociologist and historian Gilberto Freyre. We will learn about
the regime’s scramble for Africa, its management of internal dissent and
migration, its position with regard to World War II, and its adoption of
Lusotropicalism as a state ideology for the shaping of a Lusophone Atlantic
world. We then move to the different ways in which African intellectuals
responded through adoption, adaptation or outward rejection, leading up to the
idea of an armed struggle for independence. The final third of the course
explores the memory of Empire in post-1974 Portugal and its former colonies. We
will discuss the problem of those who returned from Africa and those who
stayed, the ways in which the memory of the colonial wars made its way (or not)
into Lusophone literary and film cultures, and the recent development of
South-South connections that bypass Portugal and (re)connect Africa directly
with Brazil. Along the way, we will watch and discuss a number of films, read
some wonderful books, and – time permitting – explore the current boom of
post-colonial artwork dealing with the trauma of colonial war.This module is taught in English, but a good level of Portuguese is
key for an understanding of many of the materials.  Preparatory viewings: (if you wish to start thinking about the topic):Preparatory Reading and Primary Texts: The full syllabus, including references and links to many more texts
and visual materials, will be available on Moodle. Students are encouraged to
watch the online materials and, once they have an idea of where their interests
are, purchase some of the primary literature. The most relevant secondary
materials will be made available online and in the library. Please contact the
tutor with any questions before you purchase materials.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 credits Level: Advanced Level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG) Term/s: Term 2Tutor: Ana Cláudia Suriani da SilvaUG Assessment: one 2500 word essay (50%); and one 3500 word
portfolio (50%) consisting of a long translation and commentary of a short
story, and a commentary of a group of crônicas.PG Assessment: 1x 6000 word essay (100%).Module
Description:This module provides an opportunity to
develop knowledge of the Brazilian crônica and short story as short
narrative genres, based on certain principals of composition and historical
reception. It will explore key concepts of narrative theory and the
relationship between literature and journalism. A chronological overview of the
short story and crônica will be provided with a focus on the most
prominent Brazilian cronistas and short story writers from the 1870’s to
the present. The module will offer a historical and literary framework for the
critical exploration of the set texts, as it aims to trace the development of
short fiction considering its relationship to major themes, events in
post-colonial Brazilian history.This module emphasises a research-based
approach to teaching and learning, by requiring students to consult and
critically engage with a diverse range of primary sources (newspapers,
magazines, first editions, anthologies, online editions), and by developing
translation skills of specific texts, as part of their
assessment. Students will be encouraged to find their own primary materials of
choice to write their essays. It will be taught in weekly sessions, which will combine a one-hour
lecture in Portuguese and a one-hour seminar in English or Portuguese. Lectures
will engage with a particular author, topic, theoretical issue or historical
moment and introduce the framework for the seminar discussion. Seminars will
consist of close reading of set texts, small group activities, and
workshops. Aims of the module:You may start reading
the primary texts for this course before classes begin. Preparatory
Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.  The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Full YearTutor: Dr Anne Grydehøj Teaching structure: One weekly 2-hour
seminar consisting of discussion and student presentations. Moodle to be used as a repository for
reading materials as well as for preparatory assignments and forum discussions. Assessment: one unseen
three-hour written examination (50%); one oral examination (30%); and
coursework (20%).Module Description:The module aims to: build on
and improve students’ existing language skills, taking students up to a level
of near-native proficiency in all four language skills: speaking, understanding,
writing and reading; enable the students to express themselves in clear,
concise, coherent, fluent, and linguistically and grammatically correct Danish.A high level of student
autonomy will be expected, and the module will to a large extent consist of
students’ own work. Weekly assignments to be completed at home will be given
and the feedback to these will constitute an essential part of the work of perfecting
students’ language competence.Preparatory Reading and Set
Texts:Texts: No textbook is required
for the module; instead, a variety of authentic materials will be used. Grammar: It is recommended
that students own a copy of R Allan, P Holmes & T Lundskær-Nielsen, Danish.
An Essential grammar (Routledge 2000). Dictionaries: It is recommended that students own a Danish dictionary
such as Politiken's Nudansk Ordbog. Students will occasionally need to
consult H Vinterberg & C A Bodelsen, Dansk-engelsk ordbog
(Gyldendal) and B Kjærulf Nielsen, Engelsk-dansk ordbog (Gyldendal),
which can be found in the library.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Full YearTutor: Ms Annika LindskogAssessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (50%); one oral examination (30%); and coursework (20%). Module Description: Aim: To perfect language skills in
spoken and written Swedish, building on previous experience.  Method: A lively approach to the language
using all available methods and developing a range of skills: speaking, reading, comprehension,
translation, essay writing, etc.  Classwork: discussion and talks by students on topics of
current or perennial interest, translation with emphasis on register,
grammatical analysis and advanced vocabulary work.  Private
study: Apart from
essays, translations and other preparations for class, the students are
encouraged to take their own initiative in reading Swedish newspapers,
magazines, listening to the Swedish radio and watching Swedish TV, visiting the
Swedish Church, attending films and other
cultural events. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Full YearTutor: Dr Elettra CarboneAssessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (50%); one oral examination (30%); and coursework (20%).Module Description:The aim of this module is to develop skills in the reading and comprehension of mainly bokmål to near native proficiency. During the module the students will be exposed to different types of original fictional and non-fictional texts and materials, including articles, literary texts, TV debates, films, and speeches. Students will reflect on the differences and similarities between different genres and will gradually be able to imitate different styles and registers.  Oral proficiency will be developed via individual
presentations and class discussions of topics dealing with
contemporary Norwegian issues and other issues of interest to members
of the group.  Student participation is essential.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Textbook There will be no textbook. Instead, there will be a variety of material used, including newspaper and
magazine articles, passages from novels and short stories, previous
exam papers and Norwegian films. Dictionaries All students must own a good
Norwegian-English and English-Norwegian dictionary. One of the
dictionaries must indicate the gender of Norwegian nouns. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Full YearTutor: To be confirmed (Danish), Elettra Carbone (Norwegian) & Annika Lindskog (Swedish)Teaching structure: The module structure incorporates independent reading,
one-to-one discussions with the tutor about the material and oral
presentations with the whole class, written exercises in the form of
the portfolio tasks, and a final essay at the end of the project. The
final essay is expected to show substantial knowledge and understanding
of the topic, as well as an advanced level of communicative and
expressive language skills. Assessment: portfolio work (100%). Module Description:The module aims to expand the vocabulary, oral skills and
written skills of students who already have a high level of fluency and
proficiency in their chosen language. It is designed to challenge all
students at their individual level and give them the maximum
opportunity to develop their own strengths within the framework of the module, while at the same time give the students the opportunity to
undertake a longer and more in-depth study of a specific topic that
relates to their main language.  The module comprises of individual language work on a
topic set by the module tutor each year. The primary skills to be
practised are reading, oral ability, and writing. The outcome of the module will be a portfolio of written work (3 pieces with a combined
length of min.1500 words, and 1 longer piece of about 1500-2000 words)
and one or more oral presentation/s throughout the module  Topics can include, but are not limited to, modern
literature, current social issues, cultural reviews, or a philosophical
or academic debate, and should be chosen with the abilities and talents
of the class and the individual students in mind. As a guide, a minimum
of the equivalent of five book-length texts should be read as basis for
the project. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Full YearTutor: Various (module tutor: Dr Jakob Stougaard-Nielsen
in term 1; Dr
Claire Thomson in term
2)  Teaching structure: 1-hour seminar per week, both teaching terms
Co-taught
and timetabled with:
SCANG001 Advanced Scandinavian Translation
 
Assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (60%); and three
written coursework/problem papers (40%). Module
Description: A
distinctive advantage of learning a Scandinavian language is the ability to
translate into English from all three (Danish, Norwegian, Swedish). This module
is designed to (a) provide practice in translation from the three languages,
(b) identify strategies for using knowledge of one Scandinavian language to
develop comprehension of the two, and (c) introduce translation theory and
apply it to practical translation tasks. The module is timetabled for one hour
per week throughout the academic year, in order to provide ample time to
develop skills. The first five weeks focus on translation theory, using a range
of authentic translations to identify approaches most relevant in the
Scandinavian context. Thereafter, classes cover a range of text-types and
genres across the three languages, organised in three language-specific blocs
of five weeks each. The module is team-taught by language specialists and with
occasional guest appearances from practising Scandinavian-English translators.
Students will be able to attend events relating to translation throughout the
year, including one or more briefing sessions on translation careers and
technological tools for translators.Preparatory Reading and Set
Texts: Mona
Baker, In Other Words: A
Coursebook on Translation,
London: Routledge, 2011. Lawrence
Venuti (ed.), The
Translation Studies Reader (Third
Edition), London: Routledge, 2012.
 
  You
should also familiarise yourself with UCL Library's Translation Studies resources
here: http://www.ucl.ac.uk/library/subject-support/guides/translation-studies Please
note that this module is assessed
by both coursework and examination. In order to allow students full coverage of
the module, the deadline for submission of the coursework is the beginning of
Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time to receive
feedback on the essay before the examination.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 300Term: Full YearConvenor: Dr Mart KuldkeppAssessment: 10,000 word essay (100%)
Available to:
final year undergraduate studentsModule
Description:The
dissertation is a compulsory element of the Scandinavian Studies degree. It is
an original academic work on a topic completely of your choosing. You can write
on any topic you like (so long as a staff member is willing to supervise it)
but are encouraged to write on a topic relating to your specialism (the
language, literature, culture, history etc. of the Scandinavian country you
have focused on during your studies).Students
decide on a topic and find a supervisor by the end of the first term of their
final year. They then research their project over the remaining part of their
final year and submit their dissertation as per deadline.Writing a
dissertation gives you an opportunity to pursue a topic of interest to you in
depth; to produce work that is based on original research; and to develop your
research techniques and skills in academic writing. It can be one of the most
satisfying parts of the degree and you can use it to draw together knowledge
you have acquired over the course of your studies. A successful dissertation
may well form the starting point for further, more independent work at the
postgraduate level, and it will be seen as an important indicator of an
aptitude for research.Important: cannot be taken in
conjunction with SCAN7203. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSPG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Helga LuthersdottirTeaching structure: 2-hour weekly seminar taught in English (joint with SCANG014), consisting of lectures, class discussions and student presentations.Moodle to be used as a repository for reading materials as well as forpreparatory assignments and forum discussions. This module is available to both Final 
Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: One coursework essay of 4,000 words (100%).PG Assessment: One coursework essay of 4,000 words (100%).Module Description:The module works with the idea of “crime literature” as a mode of reading rather than as a specific literary genre. The focus is on the effects of crime on small communities as presented in Icelandic and other Nordic literature predominately from the modern period, including Nordic noir. All assigned readings are in English, although students are welcome to read the texts in the source languages. No prior knowledge of Nordic languages or literature is required.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Because SCAN4204- Modern Icelandic Literature: Special Topics is a special topics module, primary 
readings, as well as topic-specific secondary readings reflect the 
specific topic to be offered and will be selected by tutor each time the module is offered. The lists below are specifically designed for the 
Special Topic: Crime in Small Numbers, to be taught in academic year 
2013-14. All readings are in English although students are welcome to 
read the texts in the source language.Primary Readings:Films: Secondary
Readings: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				 UG Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
PG Value: 30 credits Level: Advanced LevelTotal Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term: Term 1Tutor: Dr Erin GoeresTeaching Structure:This module is 
available to both Final Year students and MA students. All students 
attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial 
hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. UG Assessment: one unseen three-hours written examination (70%) and one 2500-word essay (30%)PG Assessment: One 3,000-word essay (50%) and one three-hours written examination(50%)Module Description:This module forms the logical continuation of Intermediate Old Norse and will combine advanced translation with the in-depth analysis of four set
texts. The first term will focus on Egils
saga and its place within the wider context of the Íslendingasögur, konungasögur
and skáldasögur. The second term will
focus on the poems Eiríksmál and Hákonarmál, as well as the
‘Conversion Verses’ of Hallfreðr vandræðaskáld, set within the context of
Scandinavia’s conversion to Christianity.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts: Reading lists will be provided for the
individual texts, but students are strongly advised to read the entirety of Egils saga in translation (available in
Penguin Classics, The Complete Sagas of
Icelanders or similar) before the start of term. The primary text that will be used for translation
will be Bjarni Einarsson’s edition, Egils
saga (London, 2003),  Students may also find it useful to read
any of the Sagas of Warrior-Poets,
ed. Diana Whaley (London, 2002), especially Hallfreðar
saga. Photocopies of the other set
texts will be provided. A useful introduction to Egils saga may be found in any of the following: Useful reference works: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1Tutor: Dr Haki AntonssonTeaching structure: The module will be taught
through a combination of lectures and seminars that will alternative between close
scrutiny of original sources and discussion of wider historical themes.Assessment: one unseen three-hour written examination (70%); and one essay (30%).Module Description:The module will focus on
the impact the Vikings had on European society ca. 800-1050. Additionally, the emergence of “new
societies” as a result of Viking exploration in the North
 Atlantic will be examined. Geographically the module will include
Continental Europe, the Insular world, the North Atlantic colonies and Russia.
Particular emphasis will be placed on a close examination of the various
source-categories relevant to the study of the Vikings in Europe.
These sources were produced both from within and outside Scandinavia
and include, inter alia, written
sources, archaeological evidence, numismatics and place-names.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 0.5 course unitTutor: Dr Annika LindskogAssessment: 1 essay of 1,500 words (30%); 1 project of 3,000 words (70%).Module Description:What is a Nordic landscape? How have conceptions of landscape been
perceived, represented, modified and moderated in the Nordic region?
What is the function of landscape today, and how has the traditions of
landscape and landscape perception influenced life in the Nordic
region? This module takes as its starting point that any landscape
never just is, but is continuously appropriated by
inhabitants and observers though art, literature, film, and music, as
well as through activities such as tourism and policy making. Looking
at examples of landscape from historical through to urban landscapes
and the built environment, from the romantic and national landscape
through to today’s environmental and global awareness, and making use
of a wide variety of possible texts – novels and poetry, tourist
brochures and paintings, runestones and films, black metal and
symphonic music, political speeches and travel diaries – the module
aims to consider both the physical space and mental concepts of
landscape in the Nordic region, tracing representations of and rhetoric
around landscape across times and regions. We will work with both
theoretical concepts used in landscape theory and cultural geography,
and concrete and local examples through the written, visual, and aural
texts, trying to gain an understanding of not only the different
approaches to the Nordic landscapes that exist and have existed, but
also how these evolved and what impact they have had and still have.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:For further reading and week-by-week set reading, please refer to the module's moodle site.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 1Tutor:  Dr Helga LuthersdottirTeaching structure: Assessment: one assessed 4000 word essay (100%).Module Description:Norse myths and medieval sagas have been the
source for “popular” cultural trends since the first nationalistic approach of
the Romantics in 19th century Europe. Today, such Norse-based representations
have established a distinct visual and thematic identity within popular culture
transcending national and cultural boundaries. Through study of the source
myths combined with theoretical analysis of various popular texts such as
fantasy and graphic novels, comic books, film, music, video games and MMORPGs
(massively multiplayer online role-playing games), this module will guide students
to situate these depictions within a larger theoretical framework of Nordic
studies and cultural theory, while simultaneously
enabling them to analyse their own relationship with the various
representations of the “popular Norse”.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Primary TextsFilmsSecondary TextsAdditional texts will be introduced as the module progresses. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Undergraduate
Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 15 ECTSPostgraduate
Value: 30 creditsUG Level: Intermediate Level (Level 5)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Mart KuldkeppTeaching structure: this module is available to both Final Year students and MA students.
All students attend ten two-hour seminars; MA students have four additional
tutorial hours in which to extend and deepen their exploration of the subject. Assessment for SCAN7310:
one unseen two-hour written examination (60%); and one 2500
word essay (40%).Assessment for SCANG017: one assessed 6000 word essay (100%).Available to: Final Year undergraduate students, MA students and affiliatesModule
Description:The Nordic
countries have often been regarded as ‘model’ societies, famous for their high
levels of economic prosperity, social equality and political stability. We will
discuss the historical roots of this distinctive ‘Nordic’ experience and how it
has changed since the end of the Cold War, as the Nordic countries have needed
to adopt to new regional, Europe-wide and global developments. This historical
introduction will be followed by a thematic examination of contemporary Nordic
societies in a comparative perspective, looking at the varied legacies of the
‘Nordic model’. Topics to be covered include Nordic foreign and security
policy, domestic politics and the rise of the populist right, immigration and
integration, crime and justice, gender equality, environmentalism and Nordic
co-operation. It should be noted that a focus on the Nordic countries will also
provide a new perspective on some of the most important developments affecting
the whole of Europe over the last 25 years. Preparatory reading and
set texts: There
are no set texts.  A full reading list will be provided at the start of
the course.Mary
Hilson, The Nordic Model:
Scandinavia since 1945 (London: Reaktion, 2008).David Arter,
Scandinavian Politics Today (Manchester:
Manchester University Press. Third edition).Eric S
Einhorn and John Logue, Modern
Welfare States: Scandinavian Politics and Policy in the Global Era (Westport,
Connecticut, 2003).Knud V
Jespersen, A History of
Denmark, translated Ivan Hill (Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan, 2004). David
Kirby, A Concise History of
Finland (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2006).Jason Lavery,
The History of Finland
(Westport, Conn.: Greenwood Press, 2006).Osmo
Jussila, Seppo Hentilä and Jukka Nevakiri, From
Grand Duchy to Nation State: A political history of Finland since 1809, translated
David and Eva-Kaisa Arter (London:
Hurst & Co, 1999).Gunnar
Karlsson, Iceland's 1100
years : the history of a marginal society (London: Hurst, 1999).Rolf
Danielsen et al., Norway: A History from the Vikings to Our Own Times, translated by Michael Drake (Oslo: Scandinavian
University Press , 1995).Byron J
Nordstrom, The history of
Sweden (Westport, Conn.: Greenwood Press, 2002).Neil Kent,
A Concise History of Sweden (Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 2008).
 
 Notes: This Term 2 module is assessed by both essay and
examination. In order to allow students full coverage of the module, the
deadline for submission of the essay is the beginning of Term 3. In practice,
this will leave no or, at best, limited time to receive feedback on the essay
before the examination.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 30 UCL credits / 1.0 course unit / 15 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 300Term: Full YearTutor: Dr Haki AntonssonTeaching structure: The module will be taught through a combination of lectures and seminars.This module is also available as two one-term options, respectively: SCAN7405A - 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS (Term 1)SCAN7405B - 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS (Term 2)Assessment: SCAN 7405 is assessed by one unseen three-hour written examination (50%); and two 2,500 word essays (25% each).Parts A and B are each assessed by 2 essays each of 2500 words (50% each)Module Description:The module will examine society and culture in Scandinavia in the period ca. 800-1100. Geographically the module will encompass Sweden, Denmark Norway, and the Norse colonies in the North Atlantic (the Faroes, Iceland, and Greenland). In the case of Iceland the time-span will extend to the end of the Commonwealth period (ca. 1262). The principal themes that the module will cover include: the causes of the Viking Age; the development and emergence of the three Scandinavian kingdoms; the nature of the pre-Christian religion; the conversion to Christianity; the development of Church organisation; relation with Europe, in particular the Insular world and the beginning of written culture. Particular emphasis will be placed on presenting and analysing the various source-categories relevant to Viking-Age Scandinavia. These include, for example, runic inscriptions, place-names, archaeological evidence and saga literature.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value: 15 UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTSLevel: Advanced Level (Level 6)Total Learning Hours: 150Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Claire ThomsonTeaching structure: Runs in term 2 2017-18.
Consists of weekly screening plus weekly 2-hour seminarAssessment: one assessed 2,500 word essay (30%); and one assessed 4,000 word project (70%)Module Description:This unit has two main objectives: (a) to enable students to develop the skills to analyse films as
texts in their cultural and historical contexts, and (b) to provide an overview
of the development and range of Nordic film as art and industry, within the
broader context of European film history. The module is structured into three blocks, respectively covering early and silent cinema in Denmark, Norway and Sweden; three Nordic auteurs, Dreyer, Bergman and Kaurismäki; and the notion of contemporary 'small-nation cinema', covering Icelandic film, Dogme 95, intercultural cinema and transnational co-production. In 2015-16 the module runs in term 1, and consists of a weekly two-hour (approx) film screening with introduction, followed the next day by a two-hour seminar.  Students are expected to undertake
preparatory reading for lectures and seminars, to attend all
screenings and seminars, and
to watch additional films as necessary. A detailed course outline and week-by-week reading is available on the
module moodle site (UCL user id and login required).The first essay tests students' grasp of film analysis and their ability to apply it to particular films. The second piece of assessment is a project which is independently designed and researched by the student on a topic of his/her choice, under the guidance of the module tutor. Former students of the module have been able to publish outstanding project work under the auspices of the Norvik Press student writings series - see Framed Horizons below.No knowledge of a Scandinavian language is required as all films are subtitled (though a reading ability in a Scandinavian language does give access to a broader range of primary and secondary materials). Students from outside Scandinavian Studies are welcome to enrol, subject to available space.Key texts:   A
week-by-week reading list is provided at the start of the module. Students are
not expected to buy or read all of the texts below in advance; this list is
indicative only. • Marita Fraser, Melissa Powell, Rose-Anne Ross, Anna V.
Strauss, C. Claire Thomson (eds), Framed Horizons: Student Writing on Nordic Cinema, London: Norvik Press, 2012. • Susan Hayward, Cinema Studies. The Key Concepts (London, Routledge, 2001) and/or another
introduction to film studies. • Mette Hjort, Small Nation, Global Cinema: The New Danish Cinema, Minneapolis: University of Minnesota
Press, 2005.
 
  • Mette Hjort and Ursula Lindqvist (eds), A Companion to Nordic Cinema, Chichester, West Sussex; Malden, MA: John
Wiley & Sons Inc., 2016. [Available full-text via UCL Library]
 
  • Mariah Larsson and Anders Marklund (eds): Swedish Film: An Introduction
and Reader, Lund:
Nordic Academic Press, 2010. • Andrew Nestingen and Trevor Elkington (eds), Transnational Cinema in a
Global North: Nordic Cinema in Transition, Detroit: Wayne State University Press,
2005. • Eva Novrup Redvall, Writing and Producing Television Drama in Denmark: From The
Kingdom to The Killing (Palgrave Studies in Screenwriting), Basingstoke: Palgrave,
2013. • Tytti Soila, Astrid Söderbergh-Widding and Gunnar Iversen, Nordic National Cinemas, London: Routledge, 1998. • John Sundholm et al. (eds), Historical Dictionary of Scandinavian Cinema, Plymouth: Scarecrow Press, 2012. (spot
the deliberate mistake on the cover on Amazon!) • C. Claire Thomson (ed.), Northern Constellations: New Readings in Nordic Cinema, Norwich, Norvik Press, 2006. • Journal
of Scandinavian Cinema  • Resources provided by the Nordic Film Institutes are plentiful
and include downloadable magazines and sub-sites on major filmmakers (there is
an English-language version of all these sites): Danish Film Institute, Icelandic Film
Centre, Finnish Film Foundation, Norwegian Film
Institute, Swedish Film Institute, Carl Th. Dreyer: The Man and his Work, Ingmar Bergman.se Weekly
film screenings (indicative): Afgrunden (The Abyss, dir. Urban Gad, Denmark, 1910) Körkarlen (The Phantom Carriage, dir. Victor Sjöström, Sweden, 1920) Den
hemmelighetsfulle leiligheten
(The Mysterious Apartment, dir. Tancred Ibsen, Norway, 1948) Det
sjunde inseglet (The
Seventh Seal, dir. Ingmar Bergman, Sweden, 1957) Gertrud
(Gertrud, dir. Carl Th. Dreyer,
Denmark, 1966)
 
  Mies
vailla menneisyyttä (The
Man without a Past, dir. Aki Kaurismäki, Finland, 2002)
 
  Börn
náttúrunnar
(Children of Nature, dir. Friðrik Þór Friðriksson, Iceland, 1991)  Festen (The Celebration, dir. Thomas Vinterberg, Denmark, 1998) Zozo
(dir. Josef Fares, Sweden,
2005) Miss
Julie (dir. Liv Ullmann, Norway/Sweden/Ireland,
2014) Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
30
UCL credits / 1.0 course units / 15 ECTS 
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 300
 Term/s: Term 1 and Term 2Tutor: various
Module convenors: Adolfo Sánchez Cuadrado & Marga Navarrete Teaching
structure:Assessment 2017-18:
Final Desk Exam with components of
Grammar, Composition in Spanish, Translation into Spanish and Translation into
English (50%); Oral Exam (20%);
Coursework (30%). The coursework consists of two grammar
quizzes, two oral presentations, two writing exercises in Spanish, two
translations into Spanish, and two translations into English. The
breakdown for coursework marks is 3% for each component.Assessment 2016-17: Module
Description:This is an advanced Spanish language
module designed for finalists, consolidating level C1 and exploring level C2 of
the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR). In the Grammar
and Communicative Skills classes, you will consolidate your skills acquired in
your Year Abroad. You will also improve your language proficiency by carrying
out tasks at C2 level (the highest of CEFR levels). Therefore, you will be
exposed and will have to use increasingly sophisticated language in a wider variety
of contexts and registers. Different varieties
of Spanish will be explored. The Translation classes will consolidate your
translation competences already acquired in the previous years. You will be
encouraged to make connections with your experience in the Year Abroad and
broaden your knowledge of Hispanic culture(s). Set Textbooks*:VV. AA. (2013), Nuevo
Prisma C2. Libro de ejercicios. Madrid: Edinumen. 160 pages. ISBN: 9788498482607. (Please note
that Nuevo Prisma C2 has two components, Libro del alumno and
Libro de ejercicios. Students are only required to buy the Libro
de ejercicios as referenced).VV. AA. (2012), Developing
Writing Skills in Spanish. London and New York: Routledge. 372 pages.
Hardback ISBN: 9780415590822. Paperback ISBN: 9780415590839. [Digital copy
available from UCL library]. *Students are required to get a copy of each book and are expected to bring them to their respective classes.
 
 Reference Grammar
(recommended):VV. AA. (2011, 2013),
A New Reference Grammar of Modern Spanish. 5th Edition. Oxon
y Nueva York: Routledge. 608 pages. ISBN: 9781444137699. [Digital copy
available for temporary download from UCL library, and permanent on-line viewing
from UCL library].VV.AA. (2011), Practising
Spanish Grammar. 3rd Edition. London: Routledge. 248 pages.
ISBN: 978-1444137705 [Digital copy available from UCL library]. Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term/s: Term 1 (SPAN4001A) Term 2 (SPAN4001B)Tutor: Alejandro Bolanos-Garcia Escribano and Haydn KirnonAvailable to: Affiliate students who are native speakers of Spanish.Teaching structure: SPAN4001A (0.5cu) in term 1, SPAN4001B (0.5cu) in term 2. Assessment: Assessment is based on coursework (50% of the overall grade) and an unseen in-class final exam paper (50% of the overall grade).Module Description:This is a practical, advanced-level language module designed for native Spanish-speaking affiliate students. It consists of translation from Spanish into English as well as comprehension and discussion of English texts.The course is based on a weekly, 2-hour class which is split between guided translation, student presentations, and group discussions. Beyond the class, you will be expected to spend a further 4-6 hours per week working on coursework set by the tutor.The objectives of this course are:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS
 Level: Advanced Level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 150  Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Maria Chiara D'ArgenioAssessment: one 3000 word essay (40%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (60%).Module Description:In this module,
we will study a number of avant-garde movements that emerged across Latin
America in the twentieth century. We will examine how these vanguard movements
responded to, and were influenced by, the social and political transformations
of various countries in the region. Through the work of Vicente Huidobro,
Felisberto Hernández, Manuel Maples Arce, Xul Solar, Oliverio Girondo, Nicolás
Guillén and César Vallejo we will explore fundamental notions brought to the
forefront by the vanguard movements, such as the category of the new, the place
and importance of the artists and of art in continuously changing societies,
the concepts of autonomy vs. socially and politically engaged art, and ideas of
‘rehumanization’ of art. We will examine the proposals of the Latin American
avant-garde movements, how they were influenced and articulated, and consider
their legacy in Latin America.This module is taught by lectures
and seminars which will include regular group discussion.Students
should read all the texts listed below and the supplementary readings indicated
by the course tutor before the allocated class.Texts:Introductory bibliography:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG) Term/s: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Humberto Núñez-FaracoTeaching Structure:This module is available to both
 Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG assessment:  one 3000 word essay (40%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (60%)PG assessment: one 6000 word essay (100%)Module Description: This module focuses on the work of Jorge Luis Borges, who is widely
recognized as the most influential writer in modern Spanish American
literature. It seeks to comprehend the
complexity of his work, from the nationalistic aspirations of the 1920s to the
universality of his mature writing.N.B. This module is taught in Spanish language
(seminars will be held in English).Methodology:All classes combine an initial 50-minute lecture followed by a
reading seminar or presentation. There will be a 5-minute pause in-between.
Students are kindly requested to read in advance the corresponding texts for
each week.Class notes will be posted on Moodle after each lecture/seminar. Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Please note: This
module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may
be made prior to the start of the academic year. The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsSPAN4117A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The module takes place at the same time as SPAN4117.Level: Advanced Level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG) Term: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Alexander SamsonTeaching Structure:This module is available to both
 Final Year students, affiliate students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG Assessment: One essay (40%) and one two hour examination (60%). 
PG Assessment: One 6,000 word essay.SPAN4117A Assesment: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Module Description:Often described as the best book of all
time, Miguel de Cervantes’s Don Quixote
has also been credited with being the first novel. Cervantes described his
world and the people around him with an exceptional combination of sympathy and
wit. Acutely observed, Cervantes’s fiction is also very funny. Only Shakespeare
is widely attributed with equal brilliance.But while Don Quixote is at the core of this course, we will also read one of his Novelas ejemplares, 'Rinconete
y Cortadillo'.The roots of Cervantes’s genius are his
own experience (he led an accident-ridden but exciting life during which he was
decorated for bravery in battle and imprisoned while working as a taxman) and
his own reading and interest in the theatre (for he was a playwright before he
invented the novel). The course will touch on the chivalric literature parodied
in Don Quixote while also introducing
students to Humour Theory and its relevance to the Cervantine cannon.Please note that students will be
expected to have read at least Part I of Don Quijote de la Mancha by the start of term.Texts:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS   Level: Advanced Level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term: Term 2Tutor: Dr Joana Rita RamalhoAssessment: one assessed 3,000 word essay (40%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (60%). In the exam, students must answer questions on films not studied for the coursework essay. Module Description: This module examines the
development of Spanish film from the late 1990s onwards focusing on issues
such as gender, migration, genre, the k;influence of Hollywood and the increasing
globalisation of the film industry. Films (subject to availability):Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(SPAN4307A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The module takes place at the same time as SPAN4307.) Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS Level: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150 Term/s: Term 1 Tutor: Professor Stephen HartAssessment: SPAN4307: One 3,000 word coursework essay (40%), and one, two hour exam (60%).
SPAN4307A: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module Description:Cultural Dilemmas II analyses cultural dilemmas in a selection of Latin
American texts and films with particular reference to the avant-garde,
the "Boom" novel  and the
"slick grit" of contemporary Latin American film. Schedule:Week 1: The
avant-garde in Latin AmericaWeek 2: The
avant-garde in Latin AmericaWeek 3: Gabriel
García Márquez, El amor en los tiempos del cólera (1985) (novel)Week 4: Gabriel
García Márquez, El amor en los tiempos del cólera (1985) (novel)Week 5: Alejandro
González Iñárritu, Amores
perros (2000) (film)Week 6: Alejandro
González Iñárritu, Amores
perros (2000) (film)Week 7: Walter
Salles, Diarios de
motocicleta (2004) (film)Week 8: Walter
Salles, Diarios de
motocicleta (2004) (film)Week 9:
Alfonso Cuarón, Gravity (2013)Week 10: Alfonso
Cuarón, Gravity (2013)BIBLIOGRAPHY (important items highlighted with asterisk)Arijon,
Daniel, Grammar of the Film Language
(Los Angeles, CA: Silman-James Press, 1976).Ashcroft,
Bill, Gareth Griffiths and Helen Tiffin (eds), The Post-Colonial Studies Reader (London: Routlege, 1997).Bishop,
Elizabeth, and Emanuel Brasil (eds), An Anthology of Twentieth-Century
Brazilian Poetry (Middleton, CT: Wesleyan University Press, 1972). Brito, Mário da Silva, História do modernismo brasileiro, 2nd
revised ed. (Rio de Janeiro: Editôra Civilizacão Brasileira , 1964).Buckland,
Warren, Film Studies (London: Hodder
and Stoughton, 1998). Burton, Julianne, Cinema
and Social Change in Latin America:
Conversations with Latin American Filmmakers (Austin: University of Texas
Press, 1986).Braudy, Leo,
and Marshall Cohen, Film Theory and
Criticism: Introductory Readings
(Oxford: OUP, 1999). Contemporary Latin American
Cultural Studies, eds Stephen Hart and Richard Young (London:
Arnold, 2003),
pp. 177-89.Coutinho, Afrânio, An Introduction to Literature in Brazil
(New York: Columbia University
Press, 1969).Coutinho, Afrânio (ed.), Enciclopédia da Literatura Brasileira, 2 vols. (São Paolo: Global Editora, 2001).
Dictionary of Twentieth-Century Culture:
Hispanic Culture of South America, ed.
Peter Standish (Detroit, MI: Gale Research Ltd, 1995). During, Simon, The Cultural Studies Reader (London:
Routledge, 1999).*Elena, Alberto, and Marina Díaz López, The Cinema of Latin America (London: Wallflower, 2003). González
Echeverría, Roberto, The Voice of the
Masters: Writing and Authority in Modern Latin American Literature (Austin:
University of Texas Press, 1985).*Hart,
Stephen, Gabriel García Márquez
(London: Reaktion, 2010).*Hart,
Stephen, Latin American Cinema
(London: Reaktion, 2014).*Hart, Stephen M., ‘Latin American
Poetry’, in A Companion to Latin American Literature and Culture, ed.
Sara Castro-Klaren (Oxford: Blackwell, 2008), pp. 426-31.Hart, Stephen
(with Owen Williams), ‘Latin American Cinema’s Trojan Horse’, in A Companion to Latin American Cinema
(Malden, MA: Wiley, 2017), ed. Maria Delgado Stephen M. Hart and Randal
Johnson, pp. 408-29. Hayward,
Susan, Key Concepts in Cinema Studies
(London: Routledge, 1996).Hennebelle, Guy, Les Cinéastes de l’Amérique latine (Paris: Pierre L’herminier,
1981).Hojas
de cine: testimonios y documentos del nuevo cine latinoamericano (Mexico: Fundación Mexicana de Cineastas,
1988), 3 vols. King, John, Magical Reels (London: Verso, 2000), 2nd
ed. Lehman,
Peter, and William Luhr, Thinking About
Movies: Watching, Questioning, Enjoying (Oxford: Blackwell, 2003). Mahieu, José Agustín, Panorama del cine iberoamericano (Madrid: Ediciones de Cultura
Hispánica, 1990).Martin,
Michael T., ed. New Latin American Cinema
(Vol Two: Studies of National Cinemas) (Detroit: Wayne State University
Press, 1997).*Martínez
Martínez, Germán, ‘A Mexican in Hollywood or Hollywood in Mexico: Gobalized
culture and Alfonos Cuarón’s Films’, in A
Companion to Latin American Cinema (Malden, MA: Wiley, 2017), ed. Maria
Delgado Stephen M. Hart and Randal Johnson, pp. 392-407.Mediating Two Worlds: Cinematic Encounters
in the Americas,
ed. John King, Ana M. López and Manuel Alvarado (London: BFI, 1993).*Mendonça Teles, Gilberto, Vanguarda europea e modernismo (São Paolo: Vizes, 1992).Mexican Cinema, edited by Paulo Antonio
Paranaguá (London: BFI, 1992).Miller, Nicola,
and Stephen Hart (eds), When Was Latin America Modern? (New York: Macmillan, 2007). Miller, Toby,
and Robert Stam (eds), A Companion to
Film Theory (Oxford: Blackwell, 1999). Nist, John, The
Modernist Movement in Brazil: A Literary Study (Austin: University of Texas
Press, 1967).Pérez Murillo, María Dolores, and David
Fernández Fernández (eds), La memoria
filmada: América latina a través de su cine (Madrid: IELPA, 2002). Pick, Zuzana
M., The New Latin American Cinema: A
Continental Project (Austin: University of Texas Press, 1993).*Podalsky,
Laura, ‘Affecting Legacies: Historical memory and Contemporary Structures of
Feeling in Madagascar and Amores perros’, Screen, 44.3 (Autumn 2003), 277-94. Rodríguez, Ileana, ‘Postmodern Theory and
Cultural Criticism in Spanish America and Brazil’, in A Companion to Latin
American Literature and Culture, ed. Sara Castro-Klaren (Oxford: Blackwell,
2008), pp. 602-19.*Rosenberg, Fernando J., The
Avant-Garde and Geo-Politics in Latin America (Pittsburgh: University of
Pittsburgh Press, 2006).*Rosenberg, Fernando J., ‘Cultural Theory
and the Avant-Gardes: Mariátegui, Mário de Andrade, Oswald de Andrade, Pagú,
Tarsila do Amaral, César Vallejo’, in A Companion to Latin American
Literature and Culture, ed. Sara Castro-Klaren (Oxford: Blackwell, 2008),
pp. 602-19.Santiago, Silviano, The Space
In-Between: Essays on Latin American Culture (Durham, NC: Duke University
Press, 2001).Schumann, Peter B., Historia del cine latinoamericano (Buenos Aires: Legasa, 1985).*Shaw,
Deborah, Contemporary Cinema of Latin
America: 10 Key Films (London: Continuum, 2003). *Shaw,
Deborah (ed.), Contemporary Latin
American Cinema: Breaking into the Contemporary Market (Lanham: Rowmand
& Littlefield, 2007).Shiel, Mark,
and Tony Fitmaurice, Cinema and the City:
Film and Urban Societies in a Global Context (Oxford: Blackwell, 2001). Shapiro, Theda, Painters and politics : the European avant-garde
and society, 1900-1925 (New
York-Oxford, Elsevier, 1976).Skidmore,
Thomas E., Modern Latin
 America (New York: OUP, 1992).Skidmore, Thomas E., Brazil : five centuries
of change (New York-Oxford : Oxford University Press, 1999).*Smith, Paul Julian, Amores
perros (London: BFI, 2003).Verity (ed.), Encyclopedia of
Latin American Literature (Chicago: Fitzroy-Dearborn, 1997).Spivak, Gayatri, ‘Can the Subaltern Speak?’, in Bill Ashcroft, Gareth
Griffiths and Helen Tiffin (eds), The
Post-Colonial Studies Reader (London: Routledge, 1997), pp. 24-28.Standish,
Peter (ed.), Dictionary of
Twentieth-Century Culture: Hispanic Culture of South
 America (Detroit, MI: Gale Research Ltd, 1995).Swanson,
Philip, The New Novel in Latin America:
Politics and Popular Culture after the Boom (Manchester: Manchester
University Press, 1995). *Swanson,
Philip, The Cambridge Companion to
Gabriel García Márquez (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2010).Verissimo,
Erico, Brazilian Literature: an Outline (New York: Greenwood, 1969).Webber, Andrew, The
European avant-garde 1900-1940 (Cambridge, Mass.: Polity Press, 2004). Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term/s: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Maria Chiara D'ArgenioTeaching Structure:This module is available to both
 Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG assessment: One
3000-word essay (40%) and a two-hour desk exam (60%)PG assessment: One 6000-word essay (100%)Module
Description:This module examines the portrayal of the city in Latin American
culture in a variety of genres (including essays, novels, short stories and
films) and analyses the roles urban spaces have played within perceptions and
projections of individual and national identities in different parts of the
region at different times during the twentieth and twenty-first centuries. Classes will take the form of lectures
followed by seminars involving discussion and close analysis of the primary
texts/films studied.Please note that this Term 2
module is assessed by both essay and examination. In order to allow students
full coverage of the module, the deadline for submission of the essay is the
beginning of Term 3. In practice, this will leave no or, at best, limited time
to receive feedback on the essay before the examination.Preparatory
Reading and a Selection of Course Texts/Films and supplementary texts:Key Theoretical Readings:Primary Texts:* You should investigate sources for the primary texts as early as possible (some may need to be delivered from the US)* Extensive supplementary reading lists will be provided at the beginning of the coursePlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(SPAN4400A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The module takes place at the same time as SPAN4400.)Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS   Level: Advanced Level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term/s: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Adrian PearceAssessment: SPAN4400: Two 2,000-word essays (each weighted at 50%)SPAN4400A: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). 
Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module description:This module
discusses the history of Latin America during the past two centuries, a period
during which it took on many of the key characteristics which define it today.
Powerful but disfunctional states, and populist, personalist politics; great
wealth contrasting with widespread poverty and social disenfranchisement; sprawling
mega-cities where Spanish is to all intents and purposes the only game in town,
while in some rural regions, millions speak native languages; stark problems of
racism and racial discrimination, within societies that regard themselves as
multi-cultural; and a strong love-hate relationship with the United States, all
these are the product of trends developing across the two hundred years since Independence. The first sessions are devoted
to the nineteenth century, and look at the political and economic aftermath of
Independence and the “Age of Caudillos”, in the period from the 1820s to the
1870s; slavery and abolition in Latin America, and their consequences for
Afro-Latin Americans; the Belle Epoque
(for elites) of the period from the 1870s to 1920s, that left such a striking
architectural legacy in cities such as Buenos Aires; and the ongoing
relationship of Spain with Latin America during the nineteenth century, to the
loss of Cuba and Puerto Rico in 1898.Later sessions are devoted to
the twentieth century, and begin with the mass immigration from Europe that
reshaped the region and many of its countries between the 1870s and the 1930s.
We then look at dominant political forms from the 1930s onwards, as they passed
through populism and authoritarianism, to the military regimes of the 1960s and
1970s. A related class considers the role of revolution in modern Latin
America, from Mexico in 1910 to Cuba in 1959. We then discuss democratisation
and social change in the period from the 1970s through to the 2000s. Two final
sessions consider modern Latin American history from an external perspective
and from a distinctive domestic viewpoint: firstly, through the prism of (often
troubled) relationships with the United States, and secondly of (equally
problematic) relations between indigenous peoples and nation states, with
particular focus on the Andean region. Indicative Bibliography (a full bibliography will be distributed at the start of the course). General historiesBrown, Matthew, From Frontiers to
Football: An Alternative History of Latin America since 1800 (London,
2014).Fowler,
Will, Latin America since 1780 (Modern
History for Modern Languages) 3rd ed. (London, 2015).Holden, Robert, and Rina Villars, Contemporary
Latin America (London, 2012).Primary source collections in EnglishBuffington, Robert, and Lila Caimari (eds.), Keen’s Latin American Civilization: A Primary Source Reader, vol.
2, The Modern Era 10th ed.
(Boulder, COL., 2016).See also the excellent country-specific “Reader” series of collections of
key documents in translation, published by Duke University Press, for which
volumes currently exist for Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Costa Rica, Cuba,
Ecuador, Guatemala, Mexico, Paraguay, and Peru (a volume for Colombia is
forthcoming in December 2016).Selected key studiesAljovín de Losada, Cristóbal, Political
Cultures in the Andes, 1750-1950 (Durham, NC., 2005).Andrews, George Reid, Afro-Latin
America, 1800-2000 (Oxford, 2004).Bauer, Arnold, Goods, Power,
History: Latin America’s Material Culture (Cambridge, 2009).Bethell, Leslie (ed.), The
Cambridge History of Latin America, vol. 9, Brazil Since 1930 (Cambridge, 2008).Bushnell, David, and Neil Macauley, The
Emergence of Latin America in the Nineteenth Century 2nd ed.
(Oxford, 1994).Drake, Paul, Between Tyranny and
Anarchy: A History of Democracy in Latin America, 1800-2006 (Stanford,
2009). Foote, Nicola, and Michael
Goebel (eds.), Immigration and National
Identities in Latin America (Miami, 2014).French, William, and
Katherine Bliss (eds.), Gender, Sexuality and Power in Latin America since
Independence (Lanham, MD.,
2006).Grandin, Greg, The Last Colonial Massacre: Latin America in
the Cold War (Chicago, 2004).Kapcia, Antoni, Cuba in Revolution: A History since the
Fifties (London, 2008).Knight, Alan,
Repensar la Revolución Mexicana 2
vols. (Mexico City, 2013).Levine, Robert, Father of the Poor? Vargas and his Era
(Cambridge, 2008).McPherson, Alan, Intimate Ties, Bitter Struggles: The United
States and Latin America since 1945 (Washington , DC., 2006).Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: (30 postgraduate credits)  Level: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150 (UG) / 300 (PG Term/s: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Gareth WoodTeaching Structure:This module is available to both
 Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG assessment: One 3,000 word coursework essay (50%) and one, two hour exam (50%).PG assessment: One 6,000 word coursework essay (100%). Module Description:This module will examine the changing ways in which the Spanish Civil War and subsequent dictatorship have been represented in the contemporary Spanish novel. Although Spain’s transition from Franco’s thirty-six year dictatorship to democracy has been considered a success-story, underlying tension and resentment between the opposing sides of the country’s political divide remain. A country in which the defeated of the war were treated as second-class citizens and their dead comrades excluded from official commemoration of the victims clearly has some catching up to do when it comes to national reconciliation. Spain's novelists have reflected this situation through their works, questioning the national silence over the uncomfortable past during the transition to democracy and, in more recent times, joining the national debate on how best to acknowledge both sides of the fratricidal conflict.  This half-course unit will take in the period immediately after Franco's death, when writers tried to negotiate their way through the political minefield of discussing the war and dictatorship when the on-going transition made those topics taboo. The novels we shall read and discuss seek to evade or confront these taboos in a variety of genres including the fictional memoir/fantastic novel, social realism, and the trauma narrative.Students who participate in this module will gain an insight into Spain's twentieth century history, the factors that determine its past and present political make-up, and how those have shaped debates that are continuing as we speak.More importantly, they will also read and enjoy six thought-provoking and engaging novels from the last three decades by some of the best writers of that period.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:The primary phase: the Transition to democracy (0.5 CU)Primary textsA secondary bibliography would include: Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Advanced Level (level 6)  Total Learning Hours: 150  Term: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Deborah MartinAssessment: one essay (40%); and one unseen two-hour written examination (60%) Module Description:This module will focus on the representation of children in
film, with special attention to the kind of function childhood fulfills in
Latin American cinema. This will allow us to explore thematic questions of
nationhood, politics, gender and sexuality, and the way childhood is used to
envision the past and history, as well as the future and social change. We will
also consider questions specific to cinematic and visual representation, such
as whether and how filmmakers attempt to create a child’s view of the world
through aesthetic means, and ethical questions arising around the
representation of child suffering and death.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:FilmsInitial Secondary BibliographyPlease note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				(SPAN4414A is
for affiliate students studying at UCL in Term 1 only. The module takes place at the same time as SPAN4414.)Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS  Level: Advanced Level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 Term/s: Term 1 Tutor: Dr Humberto Núñez-FaracoAssessment: SPAN4414: 3000 word coursework essay (40%), unseen 2 hour desk examination (60%).SPAN4414A: 1 x essay plan (500 words, formative only), 1 x assessed essay
(3,000 words, weighting 100%). Submission deadlines will be communicated to
students by SELCS.Module Description:The Peruvian writer, folklorist and ethnologist José María Arguedas
(1911-1969) is not only the most prominent representative of the neo-indigenist
literary movement in the Andean region but also one of its most acute
interpreters, particularly with respect to the cultural values and traditions
of the Quechua communities of his native country. This course explores
Arguedas’s vivid representation of the Andean world through a careful reading
of some of his most important literary and ethnological works. From his early
short stories and novels—in which he draws from his own personal experiences
among the Indians of the southern sierra—to his insightful essays on the historical
development of Andean mestizo culture and society, Arguedas captures
the spirit of a people that have endured centuries of oppression and, at the
same time, presents a challenging economic model for its social and political
survival.N.B. This module is taught in Spanish
(seminar discussions are held in English) Methodology: All classes combine an initial 50-minute lecture followed by group
discussion (seminar), with a 5-minute pause in-between. Students are requested to read in advance the corresponding texts for
each seminar and to bring to class their notes from reading.Preparatory Reading and Set Texts:Historical and anthropological
essays:Narrative:Verse:Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				UG Value:
15
UCL credits / 0.5 course unit / 7.5 ECTS PG Value: 30 creditsLevel: Advanced Level (level 6)
 Total Learning Hours: 150
 (UG) / 300 (PG)Term/s: Term 2 Tutor: Dr Tyler FisherTeaching Structure:This module is available to both
 Final Year students and MA students. All students attend ten two-hour 
seminars; MA students have four additional tutorial hours in which to 
extend and deepen their exploration of the subject.UG assessment: one 3000-word
coursework essay (40%), and one 3000-word portfolio (60% [comprising the student's
selection of original, revised microcuentos (15%), and reflective commentary
(45%)]).PG assessment: one 4000-word coursework essay (40%), and one 3000-word portfolio.Module Description:This
module examines the
poetics and practice of microcuentos, or short-short stories, in modern
Hispanic literature. It involves literary analysis of particular texts, the
broader study of the genre in context, and the composition of original Spanish
prose. The creative, compositional component will necessarily review and build
on the grammar and vocabulary that students have mastered in their degree
course to this point. While refining their Spanish linguistic skills, students
will have the opportunity to engage with fundamental questions about how
language and narrative work in miniature. The
module tutor convenes and facilitates lectures and seminars. All course
information will be made available via Moodle, as well as many of the primary
texts for lectures and seminars. You may start reading for this module before
classes begin. Key readings are marked with an asterisk in the list of texts.Preparatory
Reading and Set Texts: *Juan
Pedro Aparicio, Luis Mateo Díez, and José María Merino, Palabras en la nieve: Un filandón. *Cuentos breves y extraordinarios, eds.
Jorge Luis Borges and Adolfo Bioy Casares. *Entre ínsulas y penínsulas: haiku narrativo
y otros microcuentos, ed. Tyler Fisher. Augusto
Monterroso, La oveja negra y demás
fábulas.Please note: This module description is accurate at the time of
publication. Minor amendments may be made prior to the start of the academic
year.The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Can I attend an Open Day?Yes, SELCS is represented by the Admissions Officer and Admissions Tutor at the following:Alternatively, if you are unable to attend either of these events then you may take:Finally, you may contact Undergraduate Admissions Officer to make an appointment to visit SELCS (visit Contact Us).How do I make an application to SELCS?All applicants interested in pursuing a SELCS degree programme on a full-time basis should submit a UCAS application by 15th January. Any applications made to UCAS after the 15th January will only be considered if there is still availability on the particular  programme you have applied for. More information about making an application can be found on the UCAS website. As soon as we receive your application we will write to you personally to request your language combination or language choice (for BA Modern Language, BA Modern Language Plus, BA Language and Culture and BA Comparative Literature). Can I apply for more than one SELCS degree programme?Yes, that's absolutely fine. If you do decide to do this then ensure that your UCAS personal statement caters to both degree programmes you have applied for.Does SELCS accept deferred entry applications?SELCS is happy to receive applications from prospective students who would like to take a gap year. If your decision to take a year out before starting university is related to your studies you may want to mention this in your UCAS form personal statement.How difficult is it to secure a place in SELCS?The ratio of applicants to place across SELCS is approximately 9 applications for every place available. The rate differs across the School's programmes, and can also fluctuate from year-to-year. Although this statistic can seem very daunting, as long as you are predicted, or have achieved, the relevant entry requirements then you are eligible to be considered for a place and should not be put off making an application.What subjects does SELCS prefer?SELCS doesn't ask that students study a particular combination of subjects other than the subjects necessary for the programme that you wish to pursue (see the "entry requirements" tab for further information). UCL preferred subjectsHow important is the personal statement of my UCAS form?The personal statement is a very important to help us to make informed decisions about whether an application should be considered further, and ultimately be the recipient of an offer. The Admissions Team look at the quality of writing in English, critical perceptiveness, depth of reading in the target language, intellectual acuity and curiosity. Evidence of interest in, motivation and an understanding of the literature, culture and society you have chosen to study, as well as an awareness of what studying foreign language(s) at university entails are also important. Finally, we look to see that you have understood the nature of the degree programme within SELCS to which you have applied and any extramural experiences relevant to your potential studies, such as volunteering and creative activities.What if I am applying to SELCS for a course that isn't available elsewhere? How do I tailor my personal statement?We are aware that some of our courses are only available at UCL, and you are applying for 5 choices with your UCAS form and personal statement. We do not require an additional personal statement as part of your application. Try to focus on the relevant skills that are relevant to all the courses you are applying for.Can I study any languages ab initio?You can study the majority of our languages ab inition (from beginners level) apart from French and Spanish, we only teach these languages at advanced level (post A-level or equivalent).The SELCS languages which can be studied ab initio are Dutch, German, Italian. Portugese and the Scandinavian languages (Danish, Icelandic, Norwegian and Swedish).If you wish to study Spanish or French ab initio (from below A-level standard) then you should consdier the BA Language & Culture. This degree programme has specifically been designed to increase the flexibility of language choices to SELCS students. With this in mind, students are able to study any of our languages on offer ab initio through either the specific language department or the UCL Centre for Languages and International Education (CLIE).Are mature students welcome to apply to a SELCS degree?Yes. SELCS tries to be as flexible as possible when it comes to mature students (people who are 21 years old at the point of entry to university). With the study of languages it is obviously important that you can demonstrate your aptitude for languages, therefore, you may find it worthwhile to contact the Undergraduate Admissions Officer to discuss your eligibility (visit Contact Us).What is the SELCS stance upon resits and/or taking three years to pass my A Levels?We are happy for prospective SELCS students to resit elements of their study to improve upon their original marks. If this means that your A-Level studies (or equivalent) take longer than the usual period of time, this is absolutely fine. If you do resit any elements of your exams it is very helpful for this to be - briefly - mentioned in your UCAS form as it helps to explain any information that may seem unusual.Does SELCS admit students via Clearing?The SELCS Admissions Tutors make more offers than the School has places available which means that SELCS does not participate in UCAS Clearing.Does UCL offer Halls of Residence accommodation?Yes. UCL guarantees Hall of Residence accommodation to all prospective students that choose UCL as their firm choice institution and have made an on-time application for accommodation to Student Residences (by 31st May of your year of entry).What careers can I go on to have as a graduate of SELCS?Languages equip you for a wide range of careers including everything from business, finance, the media, journalism, law and hospitality to public relations, the police, advertising, translation and interpreting, and teaching. As well as a very full programme of recruitment and other events, the UCL Careers Service run specific events advertising international and overseas career opportunities every year, targeting our undergraduates.How can I find out more about the academics across SELCS?Visit People pageWhat are Interdepartmental Modules?The Interdepartmental Modules or European Languages, Culture and Society (ELCS) modules are the modules run by SELCS (as opposed to the individual departments of the School). These modules are taught by academics from across the School which allows SELCS students to tap into the expertise of academics that are from outside of their home department. ELCS modules are usually based around literature, history, linguistics and film.View Interdepartmental ModulesHow does the year abroad work?SELCS offers a full range of possible options for the Year Abroad, depending upon your degree programme, which is a compulsory part of all our programmes (except BA Comparative Literature). We have educational exchanges with universities from Buenos Aires to Berlin, from Paris to Rome. It is also possible to teach English through the British Council Assistantship scheme in a school, or undertake a work placement or internship (subject to approval).The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.
				    School of European Languages, Culture and Society (SELCS)
				    
				Studying abroad is an exciting and highly rewarding, though often challenging experience, and one that will remain with you for the rest of your life. The experiences and skills developed while abroad further academic and personal development, cultural and social awareness, provide a foundation for further study and enhance career prospects (The Guardian, The Telegraph).The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes, which enables students to:•   Learn substantial new
academic and, in some cases, professional skills•   Develop spoken and
written language skills to a near-native level of proficiency•   Gain in-depth
knowledge of the culture they are studying•   Become independent and travel more widely•   Get ready for an international workplace•   Make new friends and contacts while learningYou can spend your Year Abroad studying at a partner university, teaching English in a school abroad via British Council, or organise a work placement for yourself. Click on a relevant link below for more information:•   Dutch•   French•   German•   Italian•   Portuguese•   Scandinavian Languages•   Spanish•   Students studying one language spend the whole Year Abroad in a country where the language is spoken.•   Students studying two languages split the Year Abroad between two countries where their target languages are spoken.•   Language and Culture BA and Comparative Literature BA students spend the full year at a university where the main language they are studying is spoken or they can apply for a British Council placement.•   'One language - one placement' rule: students studying one language cannot split their year between two institutions.•   Students splitting 
their Year Abroad between two countries must check and ensure the dates
 of the two placements do not overlap.•   Students are required to complete the full term of their allocated university placement, language assistantship or work placement.Students from other UCL departments should
consult their programme tutors and administrators about their Year Abroad
arrangements.The central UCL Study Abroad Team will advise students on all aspects of fees and funding for their Year Abroad. Please refer to their Finance webpage for more information.Some students may have visa requirements for some placements. The central UCL Study Abroad Team will provide guidance on this.Year Abroad modules are pass/fail only and do not contribute to the calculation of the degree classification. Year 2 students and students currently abroad should refer to the Year Abroad chapter of the SELCS UG Students Handbook on Moodle and to guidance on the central UCL Study Abroad Team website for more information and support.Please note: Information is accurate at the time of publication. The placement options are revised and the number of study places at partner universities is negotiated on an annual basis. This means that options may be subject to change, study places do fluctuate or partnerships can be pulled altogether, with very little notice. Please do remember this when you're thinking about your Year Abroad options and remember - the key to becoming a Global Citizen is to have an open mind!The Year Abroad is an integral,
compulsory element of our four-year degree programmes. Students will 
enhance their spoken and written languages, develop skills for their 
career and make new friends. Find the answers to your programme and application questions. Register your interest in studying at the School of European Languages, Culture & Society (SELCS) and 
receive information about open days, applications, and more. 
 

   Register your interest

 
The
 Writing Lab is a free service designed to enhance students' academic 
writing and research skills. Find out more about how to use the lab.