Your browser sent a request that this server could not understand.

				    Information Studies
				    
				Many of the modules from the taught programmes offered by UCL Department of Information Studies (DIS) can be taken as a short course.There are no formal requirements for admission, although education to GCE A Level or first degree standard is generally expected. For G033 Server technologies and programming some programming experience, preferably G018 Introduction to programming and scripting, is required.DIS currently offers the following modules as short courses:Each module is taught in the course of a single term, either Term 1: October to December, or Term 2: January to March (click here for further details of UCL term dates).Depending on the module, classes, lectures, seminars and field visits may occupy either a half day or a whole day each week. Classes are normally held from 10.00 to 13.00 or 14.00 to 17.00. In addition, time should be allowed for private study and for completion of coursework. Lectures are normally held on UCL's main site in Gower Street, London WC1; field visits and practical sessions may involve travel to other central London locations.Please check the 2017-18 draft Departmental teaching timetable for more information.Short course students can choose whether or not to take the formal assessment for the module. Assessment normally takes the form of one or more pieces of written coursework [INSTG019 Legal and social aspects is assessed by written examination only]. Short course students do not obtain a recognised qualification from UCL, but can be issued with a certificate of attendance as evidence that they have studied the module(s) of their choice.The fee for a single module short course for UK and EU residents is £750, payable at the start of the module. If your normal place of residence is outside the EU, the fee is £1,000.If you have any further questions, please email: ian.evans@ucl.ac.ukPlease complete a short course application form and send it to:Short Course AdministratorDepartment of Information StudiesUCLGower StreetLondonWC1E 6BTemail: ian.evans@ucl.ac.ukApplications for short courses can be submitted at any time, but places are limited and early application is advised.
				    Information Studies
				    
				Our courses and modules are also open to those people wishing to update or fill-in gaps their professional skills.Rated by both The Times and The Guardian as the best 
information school in the UK, the fact that Information Studies offers a
 high quality teaching environment should come as no surprise. This is 
all because of our dedicated, professional staff – many of whom are the 
best selling authors of the standard textbooks that are compulsory 
reading; small class sizes; the high quality of our students; and our 
highly personal and caring culture.We largely 
teach at the postgraduate level and offer probably the widest
 range of information disciplines in the country, covering the fields of
 Librarianship, Information Science, Archives, Records Management, 
Digital Humanities and Publishing. By offering such a wide range 
of fields we not only provide wide professional choice but also, via 
options etc, the important context in which to study the individual 
information discipline of your choice. Whatever the field chosen, our 
prime objective is to provide students with professionally relevant 
skills and skills which prepare them to function at the very highest 
managerial level.We also teach on the Information Management for Business (IMB) BSc at 
the undergraduate level and here too we aim to help turn out students 
who will be tomorrow’s industry leaders. The IMB degree is characterised
 by its interdisciplinarity, representing as it does the collaborative 
efforts of three top-class UCL departments -  Management Science & 
Innovation (the degree's home department), Information Studies, and 
Computer Science.
				    Information Studies
				    
				
				    Information Studies
				    
				This module provides students with the knowledge and understanding necessary to provide appropriate and meaningful access to physical, digitised and born-digital records and archives. The course reviews the changing concept of 'access' to records and archives within the context of UK government policies and international developments, technological developments, cross-sectorial collaboration and community-based archive initiatives. It covers topics such as compliance with access to information and privacy legislations; diversity imperatives and the recognition of physical and social barriers to access archives and records; the development and provision of outreach programmes, exhibitions, publications, websites, and social media initiatives; user services (online and onsite) including supporting learning and the identification of user needs.  Topics covered:Learning outcomes: By the end of this module students will be aware of the professional contexts underpinning access strategies, be able to provide appropriate access to records in a given situation using a range of tools, will be able to identify and work towards the removal barriers to access and be able to deal positively and effectively with users.Introductory reading J Bettington, K Eberhard, et al (eds.), Keeping archives (3rd edition), ASA Canberra 2008, esp. chapters 11-14H. Jenkinson, A Manual of Archive Administration, 2nd edition, London 1966Randall C. Jimerson, Archives Power. Memory, Accountability and Social Justice, SAA 2009C Kecskemeti & I Szekely, Access to archives, Council of Europe 2005S. McKemmish et al, Archives: Recordkeeping in Society, Wagga Wagga 2005C Williams, Managing Archives, Oxford, 2006, Chapters 5Assessment: Assessment coursework only (15 credits)This module is compulsory for students taking: Archives and Records Management (MA & Diploma) Optional for: Archives and Records Management (Certificate)This module is also available for short course studentsPrerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this moduleTaught by: Andrew Flinn, Thursday mornings 10am-1pm during term 2. Darwin Building B15Further information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				      This year is the first for a re-designed module on Collections
Care that will better reflect the needs of those responsible for the challenges
inherent in preservation management, conservation programming and the
collection care needs of library and archival material and will include digital
preservation, photographic media, disaster planning and archival standards. In
this way, this module will reflect the needs of those studying Information
Management and the responsibilities of providing access to information. A range of guest speakers will introduce many of the topics,
which will include the moving of book and archive collections, the management
of archival building projects and the challenges presented by photographs,
film, and audio-visual materials. There will also be opportunities to hear
experts talk on environmental management issues, on preparing for, and managing
a disaster, and a practical session, utilising digital preservation software.
In addition students will be encouraged to interact with speakers and will have
formal sessions for the preparation of questions to encourage both interaction
and debate. The programme, consists of ten sessions, and will present a wide-
ranging and exceptional series of lectures on all the key aspects of
collections care. Session
by session:The
challenges of remedial conservation; visit to the Wellcome Trust Conservation
studiosAssessment: Assessment by
coursework onlyOptional
for:
MA, Diploma and Certificate students in Library and Information Studies,
Archives and Records Management, Records and Archives Management
(International). This module is also available for short course studentsPrerequisites: The purpose of this
course is to build upon and extend the study of preservation issues affecting archive
and library collections. To ensure that participants get the full benefit of
the analysis and discussions, it is advised that students need a good feel for,
and basic grounding in, preservation management and planning. To assist those
joining this course it is recommended that the following preparatory reading be
undertaken: 1.
Forde, H. and Rhys-Lewis, J., Preserving Archives, 2nd
edition, Facet Publishing, 2013 2. A
general awareness of the issues covered by both: 3. British Standards Institution and the
Collections Trust, Code of practice for
cultural collections management, PAS 197:2009 Taught by:
Jonathan Rhys-Lewis, ACR, leading Collections Care Consultant
				    Information Studies
				    
				Cataloguing: Theoretical underpinnings of Cataloguing as a discipline; bibliographic models including FRBR and BIBFRAME; brief history of catalogue codes, in order to familiarize students with catalogues compiled under older rules; development of ISBD, AACR and RDA; practical descriptive cataloguing; development of MARC format; practical cataloguing using MARC 21 format.Classification: Intellectual organization of knowledge and the physical arrangement of documents; principles underlying the design and construction of subject indexing tools; factors affecting subject access to documents both in physical and digital environments; how to identify the semantic content of documents; practical work in application of standards for subject description, specifically LCSH, and classification schemes DDC, UDC, LCC.Compulsory for: MA LISTaught by: Vanda Broughton and Anne WelshFurther information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				 Course overviewTo introduce students to an extended range of techniques for the intellectual organization of knowledge; to examine criteria for the cataloguing and indexing of special forms of material, including digital materials; to promote understanding of the structure of different forms of subject indexing languages, such as classification schemes, thesauri and subject headings; to impart skills in the cataloguing of diverse materials and in the design and construction of indexing tools. Assessment: Assessment by coursework onlyOptional for: MA LISTaught by: Anne WelshFurther information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				This course considers the processes of library collection development including selection and acquisition principles and methods; retention, preservation and security policies; storage policies and planning; use and users; access to and promotion of collections; service provision; information literacy; evaluation and retention of collections; preservation strategies and conservation options. Issues relating to acquisition, access and preservation of electronic material and special issues relating to serials, interlibrary loan and document supply, financial issues, co-operation and resource sharing will be discussed.Students taking this core module will examine in detail the key issues around library collection management as “the process of planning, delivering, maintaining and evaluating a programme of stock acquisition and management which meets current objectives and builds a coherent and reliable collection to allow for future development of the service”. (CILIP PKSB 2012:26) By the end of the module, students will:Guide programme (for detailed schedule registered students access Moodle)Preliminary reading - there is no set text for this module. These general texts all contain appropriate materials. You may find them interchangeable and you do not need to read them all. The Introductory chapter of these texts should provide you with a useful initial guide to the subject. We also look very closely at existing Collection Management policies drawn from the information profession - plenty of these available openly on the WWW.Assessment: Assessment by coursework onlyCompulsory for: MA Library and Information StudiesPrerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this moduleTaught by: Dr Charles InskipFurther information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				This module aims to provide a sound understanding, both theoretical and practical, of basic systems theory, approaches to analysis, common methodologies, and the tasks of analysis and design in the context of developing computer-based information systems; the skills to apply such theory and methodologies, and to undertake such tasks; a clear knowledge of the various requirements for a successful methodology in the field; and confidence and skills to complete extended tasks using them.Learning outcomes: By the end of the module, students will have an understanding of: basic systems theory; common SAD methodologies; feasibility studies and collecting data; recording and modelling processes; recording and modelling data; interpretation of data and requirements specifications. They will be able to analyse information systems in accordance with classic systems analysis techniques and to design, implement and maintain information systems/databases.This module runs on Tuesday afternoons in Term 2. and a broad outline of content is given below.Week 1 Introduction to Systems AnalysisWeeks 2-3 Process Analysis and modelling, dataflow diagrammingWeek 4 Data analysis and modelling, Entity-Relationship modellingWeek 5 - NormalisationWeek 6 Reading WeekWeek 7 - data modelling exercises and reviewWeeks 8-11 Project tutorialsAssessment: Assessment by coursework onlyCompulsory for: MSc Information ScienceOptional for: MA LIS, MA ECP, MA/MSc DH, MA ARM. This module is also available for short course studentsPreliminary reading:Yeates, D., Shields, M. & Helmy, D. (eds.), Systems analysis and design. Pitman, 1994 (now sadly OOP)Skidmore, S. & Eva M. Introducing systems development. Palgrave Macmillan, 2004Connolly, T & Begg, C. Database systems : a practical approach to design, implementation, and management 5th ed. Addison-Wesley, 2010Bowman, K. Systems Analysis: a beginner's guide.  Palgrave Macmillan 2004Harrington, Jan, Relational database design clearly explained 3rd ed. Morgan-Kaufman, 2009Prerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this moduleTaught by: Andy DawsonFurther information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				This course introduces students to a range of issues involved in the design, creation, management and use of electronic resources in the humanities. Topics include humanities resources on the Web, 2D and 3D digitisation and digital imaging, encoding and markup systems, stylometry and text analysis, GIS, electronic dictionaries, user needs, scholarly electronic publishing in the humanities and interdisciplinarity working.The overall aims are to:Learning outcomes: By the end of the module, students will be able toEach teaching session consists of a lecture plus another session, which may be a practical, guest lecture, or visit to a resource.Assessment: Assessment by coursework onlyCompulsory for: MA/MSc in Digital HumanitiesOptional for: This module is an option for students undertaking a Masters degree in Information Science, Archives and Records Management, and Library and Information Studies.Prerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this modulesTaught by: Julianne NyhanFurther information for students currently taking this module Information for prospective students
				    Information Studies
				    
				Aims to provide an understanding of the book as physical object, with an emphasis on published and unpublished material produced pre-1850. Lectures and reading cover the history of the book while practical sessions cover bibliographic description, including title page facsimile and an overview of DCRM(B).By the end of the course, students will have an overview of the history of the book and the materials that make it up (paper, vellum, bindings, ilustrations, print, etc.), some practical exerience of bibliographic description, and knowledge of the major techniques for research, including provenance research, copy census and reader analysis.In practical sessions, students work with materials from UCL Special Collections, UCL School of Slavonic and Eastern European Studies and UCL Art Museum. Sessions are led by a team including Fred Bearman (Preservation Librarian), Andrea Fredericksen (Art Museum Curator), Genny Grim (SSEES Cataloguer) and Anne Welsh (Lecturer in LIS and Module Coordinator). We usually visit St Bride's Printing Library during the module and an optional summer visit is usually arranged. Past visits have included the Oxford Bibliography Room and the Tate Library.A flyer (pdf), intended to be gatefolded, designed for the Rare Books and Special Collections Group Conference 2012, can be downloaded from Anne's blog.A video overview of UCL Special Collections, including vox pops from several 2009 Historical Bibliography students is available on the library website..Assessment: Assessment by coursework onlyOptional for: MA LIS, MA ARM. This module is also available for short course studentsTaught by: Anne WelshFurther information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				This module aims to give participants an understanding of information resources and bibliographic control, and confidence in working with differing resources in a range of subjects to answer both reference and research queries. Students will have an awareness of factors for change and their likely impact on information resources and retrieval. We will consider:On successful completion students will Guide programme (current students see Moodle for timetable)UCL Subject librarians make an important contribution to the weekly practical computer lab elements of these classes.Preliminary readingThere is no set text for this module. Introductory paragraphs from these texts should provide you with appropriate background for the module.Assessment: Assessment by coursework onlyCompulsory for: MA LIS students. This module is also available for short course studentsPrerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this moduleTaught by: Charles InskipFurther information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				The delivery of content and information online is becoming
increasingly dynamic and device-driven. This module introduces students to the concepts of markup for web pages, website structuring and design, and the
issues involved in generating,  delivering and evaluating content effectively. Topics
include the design, construction and delivery of online content; best practice and standards for technical, accessibility
and usability issues; information architecture and user experience; re-purposing of content; dynamic, multimedia and 3D applications on the web. Learning outcomes: by the end of the module, students will have an understanding of how
content can be ported across different online environments; be
able to assess and evaluate the effectiveness of website design and
implementation, especially with regard to usability and accessibility for different
audiences; have a practical understanding of real-world applications of what has been covered in the module.Assessment: Assessment is by exam onlyCore module for: the MA/MSc in Digital Humanities, and MSc in Information ScienceOptional for: This module is also available for short course studentsPrerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this module, although some familiarity with HTML is assumed. Taught by:Further information for students currently taking this moduleInformation for prospective students
				    Information Studies
				    
				 This module uses JavaScript (ECMAscript) to introduce the fundamental principles of procedural computer programming and scripting languages. It reinforces these concepts by practical application in the context of automated web browser and document manipulation. Fundamental programming topics include data types, operators, variables, flow control via selection and iteration, arrays and objects, functional abstraction, methods and constructors, abstract data types and pattern matching. Applications include manipulation of web browsers and documents, dynamic generation of web content, and form verification via regular expressions. The module concludes with a brief overview of a range of other common programming languages. Learning outcomes: Upon successful completion of this course, you will have an understanding of the basic principles of procedural computer programming. You will be able to apply this knowledge in order to embed scripts within HTML documents to affect behaviour of web browsers and document content and appearance, and to generate HTML-based web content dynamically. You will be able to write scripts to perform simple form verification using pattern matching and regular expressions. You will have a basic undestanding of the similarities and differences between JavaScript and a range of other common programming languages. Assessment: Assessment by coursework only. Compulsory for: MSc Information Science and MA/MSc Digital Humanities. Optional for: MA Archives and Records Management, MA Library and Information Studies, MA Publishing, MRes in Library, Archive & Information Studies. This module is also available for short course students. Prerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this module, although a basic understanding of HTML and basic computer and I.T. literacy are assumed. Taught by: Rob Miller (r.s.miller@ucl.ac.uk) Timetable: Thursdays 2-5pm in Term 1
Session 1 - Introduction, Overview and Programming Fundamentals
Session 2 - Boolean Expressions and Conditional Statements
Session 3 - Repetition Statements
Session 4 - Objects and Arrays
Session 5 - Functions, Methods and Constructors
Session 6 - Lab Exercise Question and Answer Session
Session 7 - Form Input and HTML Output
Session 8 - Regular expressions
Session 9 - Some Example Programs Using String Methods
Session 10 - An Overview of Some Other Programming Languages Online Resources and Books:Further information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				This module explores the link between electronic publishing technologies, society and the law. Topics covered include, virtual communities; freedom of information and data protection; control of information and hacking; surveillance and legal access to information; health information; government information; copyright. The method of delivery is mixed and includes weekly set readings, lectures by expert guest speakers, short student presentations, and seminar discussion. Learning outcomes: By the end of the module, students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the impact of information on technological change; society; government and international relations; the place of the individual in virtual or actual communities; discuss how legislation and information affect each other; identify key issues involved in the development of the 'Information Society'; articulate personal perspectives, and show a critical awareness of the positive and negative issues of the information society. They will also have an understanding of copyright legislation in a national and international context. Assessment: Assessment is by an unseen written examCore module for: noneOptional for: MSc IS, MA/MSc DH, MA Publishing, MA Translation Studies. This module is also available for short course studentsTaught by: Simon MahonyInformation for prospective students: an indication of the module structure.Further information for students currently taking this module  (login required)
				    Information Studies
				    
				This module introduces general management principles and their relevance to all aspects of library, archive and information sector practice.During the module we will consider the ethical and legal context of information services. We will examine organizational, strategic, financial, marketing and evaluative principles and practice. We will look at issues involved in human resource planning and development, and leadership.The importance of analytical, personal and transferable management and communication competencies to meet the demands of a changing professional environment is emphasized.Learning outcomes: By the end of the module, students will be able toLearning and teaching uses a mixed approach combining:Indicative term outline:Assessment: Assessment is by a combination of coursework assignments.  (There is no examination for this module).Taught: in the Spring term on Tuesdays, 10.00-13.00, coordinated by Elizabeth Lomas Compulsory for: MA Library and Information StudiesOpen to: All other DIS students, as their programme timetables permit.Auditing the module: Students registered for DIS programmes may sit in on this module by agreement with the tutor, but must be prepared to join in with all group-work, seminars, practical class exercises and discussions.Note: This module is also available for short course students.  For further information on short courses please see: Short Courses: CPD and Short Courses at UCL Department of Information StudiesPrerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this moduleSuggested preliminary reading:Further information for students currently taking this module 
				    Information Studies
				    
				This module considers management skills for the archives and records professional and the management of archival activities. Management for archivists and records professionals includes strategic planning, management issues in public and private sectors, performance measurement, budgeting, costing and fundraising, and human resources planning. In addition, self management key skills such as time management, presentation and report writing, team working and project management are developed. Career planning and continuing professional development sessions are held.Learning outcomes: By the end of the module, students will have:• identified a range of management skills relevant to providing professional services in an archive and records management context• practised some self management key skills • the knowledge to plan their continuing professional developmentLearning is through a mixture of lectures, invited speakers, private reading and practical work.Session by session topics: The module is taught in Term 1 on Wednesday mornings (10am - 1pm) with group work in afternoon sessions (2pm-3pm, room available until 4pm)Assessment: Assessment is by one piece of coursework, worth 15 creditsCompulsory for: MA in Archives and Records ManagementOptional for: This module is also available for short course studentsPrerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this module, but some familiarity with the archives and records management workplace is assumedTaught by: Elizabeth ShepherdIntroductory text: Boddy, D. Essentials of management : a concise introduction, Harlow : Pearson 2012Further information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				This module introduces
students to the province of medieval manuscripts, providing a foundation of the
knowledge necessary to deal with manuscripts in a rare-books environment. The
focus is the medieval book as object: how it was created and stored in its
medieval setting, how it came into the hands of early-modern and modern
collectors, and how it comes to be used and regarded in the present.The core of the
course is a survey of the scripts in use in western Europe from Antiquity to
the Renaissance. Students will be introduced to key landmarks along the road
and to the varieties of names and terms that palaeographers use when discussing
handwriting. Time each week will be given to script-history and to the business
of reading medieval handwriting (introducing some of the common ways in which
words were abbreviated). In addition, we will explore aspects of the medieval
book, working outwards from its physical construction and binding to its place
in the medieval, and then early-modern, library, and finally to modern
cataloguing practices.The broad objectives
are to attain familiarity with the key reference literature, to read and recognize
the styles of script that were in use in western Europe, and to be able to
understand the books in their changing curatorial contexts.Taught by: David Rundle (University of Oxford) in
Term 2 (2016/17).Assessment: Assessment is in two parts: a short
transcription of a specimen of medieval writing (done in test conditions,
representing thirty per cent of the mark) and a coursework essay. Optional for: MA LIS, MA ARM, MA/MSc DH. This module is
also available for short course students.Prerequisites: The course is taught from first principles
and requires no formal prior knowledge. It is an unavoidable fact that almost
the totality of literate production in the middle ages was in Latin. But while
our examples of books and scripts will, unavoidably, be latinate, it is
important to state that knowledge of Latin is not a prerequisite of the course
and forms no part of the assessment.Preliminary reading: There is no essential
preliminary reading for the course, but for orientation students may wish to dip
into any of the following:B.
Bischoff, Latin Palaeography: Antiquity
and the Middle Ages (Cambridge 1990). [Editions also in German,
French and Italian.]
 
 M.
B. Parkes, Their Hands Before Our Eyes:
a Closer Look at Scribes (Aldershot 2008).J.
Roberts, Guide to Scripts Used in English
Writings up to 1500 (London 2005).Further information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				This course provides an introduction to basic concepts in computing and IT both generally and in the context of information work. It intends to develop a thorough understanding of how computer systems work, and the advantages and limitations of computer systems; to recognise the implications of using such systems, and to emphasise that whilst computers can be useful tools, they are not a solution to information problems in themselves; to give students sufficient confidence to talk to computer specialists and recognize the difference between hype and well-founded knowledge; to emphasise that every automated system must be designed with the needs of its users always in mind; to establish a basic understanding of and competency with the use of mainstream internet-related technologies (including the design of web pages), spreadsheets and database tools.Learning outcomes: Upon successful completion of this course, you will have an understanding of: basic principles of computing and how computer systems work; basic concepts of data representation and structure; database types and basic mechanisms for information retrieval from databases; data capture and digitisation techniques; fundamental considerations of HCI and system design; basic concepts relating to the assessment and evaluation of systems for infomation creation, storage, management and use; basic network technologies and markup languages; spreadsheet and database usage.This module takes place on Tuesday mornings (with practicals on Tuesday or Wedenesday mornings) in term 1.Outline timetable:Week 1 Introduction - Jargon, systems thinkingWeek 2 How computers work 1 - Processors, hardwareWeek 3 How computers work 2 - Software, data representation and structure, operating systemsWeek 4 No classes (Internet Librarian conference)Week 5 Networks 1 - technology of networking, markup languagesWeek 6 Reading WeekWeek 7 Networks 2 - Internet use and provisionWeek 8 Databases - types of database, database indexing and retrievalWeek 9 Imaging and Digitisation - image formats, image management, OCRWeek 10  Human-Computer Interaction (HCI)Week 11 System considerations: system selection, virus protection, artificial intelligencePreliminary reading:Brookshear, G. Computer Science: an overview, 11th ed. Addison-Wesley, 2011Kroski, E (series ed). The Tech Set (10 vols). London, Facet, 2010Miller, J. Internet technologies and information services. London : Libraries Unlimited, 2009Harris, A. HTML, XHTML and CSS All-in-One For Dummies 2nd ed. Indianapolis: Wiley, 2011Brophy, P. The library in the twenty-first century 2nd ed. London : Facet, 2007Assessment: Assessment by coursework onlyCompulsory for: MA LIS Optional for: MA ECP, MSc IS, MA ARM. This module is also available for short course studentsPrerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this module, but participants are assumed to have keyboarding skills and a basic level of computer experience with a PC environment. If in doubt, you are advised to discuss this with the course lecturer before beginning this moduleTaught by: Andy DawsonFurther information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				To foster awareness of professional identity and of the purpose and role of the professional librarian; to encourage a broad view of the professional skills as applicable to a variety of employment sectors; to promote an understanding of the relationships between the other courses in the programme; to identify pervasive trends in the profession; to promote awareness of current social and political issues; to support a critical and analytical approach to professional activity. The aim of the case study is to relate the theoretical knowledge acquired through the core courses of the programme to a specific real-life situation.Teaching: This module is not specifically taughtAssessment:(1) A case study of approximately 3,000 words describing and evaluating an aspect of professional practice as exemplified in an event, procedure, project or other professional issue as observed in a specific present-day workplace environment. The topic must be so chosen as to avoid overlap with the dissertation.(2) An integrative examination to bring together topics from all the core courses of the programme and to include general professional awareness.Compulsory for: MA/Postgraduate Diploma LISFurther information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				This course provides practical training in transcribing, understanding and interpreting a range of the documents employed in personal, legal, financial and administrative transactions in England and Wales from the sixteenth to twentieth centuries. It enables the students to read archives and to develop an understanding of their legal and administrative backgrounds. Topics covered will include development of letter forms from 1500 to 1900; specialist secretary, financial and legal scripts; palaeographical abbreviations and contractions; orthography in vernacular writing from 1500 onwards; historical chronology and dating; overview of English land law and its underlying concepts from 1500; diplomatic formulae; methods of authentication; application of diplomatic to modern electronic media.Learning outcomes: By the end of the module, students will be able to transcribe the different scripts, including the specialist legal, financial and charter hands, accurately and with reasonable fluency. They will also understand the historical and legal contexts in which the records were produced and will know the meaning of the diplomatic formulae employed, which will enable them to provide competent archival finding aids and to assist visitors in the search room who may have trouble reading and interpreting difficult scripts and documents.Session by session (draft):Assessment: some palaeographical transcriptions & a longer interpretive exercise (15 credits)Compulsory for: only students registered on ARM programme prior to 2012-13Optional for: ARM studentsTaught by: Peter Foden in term 2, Tuesday morning 10am-1pm Introductory reading - Hilary Marshall, Palaeography for Family and Local Historians (Philimore 2004) Further information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				Compulsory module for students taking the MA/Diploma/Certificate in Archives and Records Management.This module will look at the creation and capture of records and information within organisations in the course of their business. It will introduce students to records management approaches and techniques that can be applied to information created, received and used by organisations in a world of rapidly-changing digital technology. It sets records management in a wider risk and compliance context.By the end of the module, students will be able to understand the role of a records management programme within an organisation, manage current and non-current records systems using professional techniques, understand the challenges of digital records and develop strategies for their management, and design systems for the retention and disposition of records.Timetable: Taught classes will be held on Thursday mornings (normally 10.00-1.00) and some Thursday afternoons in term 1, beginning on 8th October 2015. The first part of the course will introduce students to records management and the organisational and technological environments in which records are created. The course will consider the classification of records, together with tools and systems for their creation and capture in a range of organisational settings taking into account compliance and the place of the retention schedule.The latter part of the course will build on the students understanding of managing records in the 'real world'. It will consider building systems in practice, delivering a records management programme and selling the benefits of a programme. Throughout the term, lectures and group exercises are supplemented by a variety of guest speakers, and towards the end of the term students will have the opportunity to present their own findings to the class.Field visits, to enable students to see examples of records management in practice, take place on some Thursdays throughout the term.Assessment: Assessment by coursework only (one piece of written work).Taught by: Elizabeth LomasVenue: AM Gordon House Room 106 PM G21 Ramsay LT Christopher IngoldAvailability: This module is suitable for interested short course students .Preliminary reading: for brief introductions to records management concepts and functions, see the records management web pages of the National Archives of Scotland and the State Records Authority of New South Wales.The core text for this module is Elizabeth Shepherd and Geoffrey Yeo, Managing Records: a handbook of principles and practice (Facet Publishing, 2003). Also useful are Julie McLeod and Catherine Hare, How to Manage Records in the E-environment (Routledge, 2006) and (at a very basic level) Judith Read and Mary Lea Ginn, Records Management (South-Western Cengage Learning, 2011). It is not essential for students to read these or other texts before starting the module, although a little preliminary reading before the module begins can often be beneficial.Further information for students taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				This module provides an introduction to the issues, techniques, 
technologies and underlying principles associated with creating and 
maintaining Web servers and database-driven websites. The course will describe different approaches to extending
the functionality of ‘plain’ web sites by using structured data to build
database driven websites. Using spatial (geographic) data as an example application
area, the students will learn how to develop web sites that can interact with a
spatially enabled database to retrieve and display results, and how they can
add map based interactive elements to a web page. The students will be introduced to the types
of data visualization and analyses that are possible using web-based spatial
data.Learning outcomes: On successful completion of the course, students will: (1) understand
server-side and clients-side approaches to extending web functionality; (2) be able
to write programs in PHP; (3) be
familiar with different types of spatial data; (4) be able
to carry out spatial queries in an SQL database and (5) be able
to embed interactive maps within a web page.Students will also have an understanding of server-based tasks such as maintaining security and correct Web access to different user groups.Time and date: The course runs on Mondays in term 2, and each week consists of a lecture 14:00-15:00, followed by a practical class 15:00-17:00Assessment: Assessment is by an extended practical projectOptional for: MSc Information Science. This module is also available for short course studentsPrerequisites: INSTG018 Introduction to Programming and Scripting. Students who have not taken INSTG018 but who feel that they may have equivalent experience in basic programming and HTML coding should discuss this with the lecturer before to applying to take the moduleTaught by: Oliver Duke-Williams, Antonis BikakisFurther information for prospective studentsFurther information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				This course provides a sound understanding of a range of issues relating to computer systems management and operation, including: day-to-day systems management, maintenance, user support, project management, system selection and evaluation, types of network, network management; website management, systems access and security, privacy, encryption, virus control, disaster planning, and system migration.Learning outcomes: Upon successful completion of this course, students will have an awareness and understanding of: day-to-day systems-, database-, network- and website-management tasks; how to implement and manage measures to support systems access and security, including virus control; project management techniques, including how to plan for systems purchase, replacement and migration; the importance of forward-, maintenance- and disaster-planning; risk assessment; options for systems and user support.This module runs on Wednesday mornings in term 2.Outline timetable:Week 1 - Introduction and overviewWeek 2 - Project management, planning and analysisWeek 3 - System specification and selectionWeek 4 - System migration and data conversionWeek 5 - Network management, system maintenance and user supportWeek 6 - Reading WeekWeek 7 TUTORIAL WEEK - no lecture: book individual tutorialsWeek 8 - Disaster planning, virus controlWeek 9 - Security and related issuesWeek 10 - Website management and promotionPreliminary reading:McNurlin, B, Sprague, R & Bui, T. Information systems management in practice 8th ed. Upper Saddle River, N.J. : Prentice Hall, 2009.White, M. The Intranet management handbook. London : Facet, 2011Kyle, Mackenzie, , Making it happen : a non-technical guide to project management. Toronto ; New York : J. Wiley , 1998.Barker, S & Cole, R. Brilliant project management : what the best project managers know, say and do. Harlow : Pearson Prentice Hall, 2009.Cortada, J. How societies embrace information technology : lessons for management and the rest of us. Hoboken, N.J. : Wiley, 2009Assessment: Assessment by coursework onlyCompulsory for: MSc Information Science, MA ECPOptional for: MA LIS, MA ARM, MA/MSc DH. This module is also available for short course studentsPrerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this moduleTaught by: Andy DawsonFurther information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				This module will provide an overview of Extensible Markup language; give students the opportunity to practice XML markup techniques and demonstrate the use of XML in publishing. Topics include document analysis, the basics of markup, DTDs and Schemas, Stylesheets and XSLT, XML in use and future developments in the XML standard. The method of delivery will be mixed, involving lectures, class discussion, and practical lab based sessions. Learning outcomes: By the end of the module students will have an understanding of the principles and role of structured generic markup. They will be able to create well-formed and valid XML documents, write DTDs and Schemas and deliver XML documents over the Web using different style sheets. They will also be able to assess and evaluate the role of XML for the management and delivery of electronic information.Assessment: A practical XML project and written commentaryCore module for: MA/MSc DHOptional for: MSc IS, MA Publishing. This module is also available for short course studentsPrerequisites: Students should have taken and passed G017 Internet Technologies or have experience of working with HTML markup and CSS stylesheets; an introductory session on HTML and CSS is available for anyone without the necessary markup experience.   Taught by: Simon MahonyFurther information for students currently taking this module:  (login required)Information for prospective students:  an indication of the module structure and some preliminary reading.
				    Information Studies
				    
				 This module provides a critical overview of the world of electronic publishing, whether commercial or non-commercial, and discusses various different types of products and techniques used in electronic publishing. The module is delivered with the aid of visiting speakers from the publishing industry, and the library and information profession, class discussion, and practical sessions in a computer lab. Topics covered include: electronic journals and open access; Web 2.0; metadata and sustainability; digitisation and preservation; human computer interaction; and the development of new digital products. Learning outcomes: By the end of the module students will have an understanding of the development of the electronic publishing industry and its current state, an awareness of the opportunities of the information revolution for traditional publishing practices. They will demonstrate ability to work in groups and to present their ideas both verbally and in writing. Assessment: Group coursework consisting of a report and oral presentation, plus an individual essay. Core module for: none Optional for: MA LIS, MA/MSc DH, MSc IS, MA Publishing, MA Translation Studies. This module is also available for short course studentsTaught by: Simon Mahony Information for prospective students:  an indication of the module structure and some preliminary reading. Information for students currently taking this module (login required)
				    Information Studies
				    
				This module explores the provision of finding aids and archival material in the online environment. It examines the background and development of EAD and EAC (Encoded Archival Context), their relationship to the principles of archival description, and their practical application to the descriptive work of archivists. In addition, this module considers some of the wider issues surrounding the presentation of digitised archival content, such as copyright and sustainability. Students will be expected to critically assess a range of current projects and to consider questions including, what determines what gets digitised, what should be the role of the commercial sector in such projects and what constitutes good practice in this area?Further information for students currently taking this module 
				    Information Studies
				    
				These modules allow students (especially part-time students who wish to relate their work to practical external projects) to undertake individual study and/or research in specific areas not otherwise covered by standard components, and/or to explore in greater detail some of the topics which are introduced in more general terms in other preceding courses; and to encourage methods of research, investigation and presentation which will be developed in the final dissertation.Since each student undertaking these courses is undertaking unique work, the specific educational aims and objectives of each implementation (and all other parameters required) must be agreed, documented and approved by the programme director and relevant tutor before any student's registration for the modules may be accepted.Individual Approved Studies (with different agreed content) may be offered multiply, as up to three separate option choices (i.e. as INSTG042, INSTG043 and INSTG044), subject to the approval of the Programme Director.Learning outcomes: Dependent on subjectAssessment: Assessment by coursework onlyCompulsory for: NoneOptional for: MSc IS. This module is also available for short course studentsPrerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this module, although formal approval of the Programme Director is required before any Individual Study may be undertakenTaught by: Dependent on subject
				    Information Studies
				    
				 
This is an optional module for students taking the MA/MSc in Digital Humanities programme. 
This module allows students (especially part-time students who wish to 
relate their work to practical external projects) to undertake 
individual study and/or research in specific areas not otherwise covered
 by standard components of their programme, and/or to explore in greater
 detail some of the topics which are introduced in more general terms in
 other preceding modules; to encourage methods of research, 
investigation and presentation which will be developed in the final 
dissertation. Note that although work for this module may prepare the 
groundwork for your intended dissertation, it may not overlap with it.
 
Since each student taking this module is undertaking unique work, the 
specific educational aims and objectives of this module (and all other 
parameters required) must be agreed, documented and approved by the 
Programme Director and potential Supervisor before any student's 
registration for the module may be accepted.
 
This module requires the same amount of work hours as any other 15 
credit module (i.e. 15 credits equates to an assumed 150 hours of 
study/research/preparation/writing) 
  Learning outcomes: Dependent on subject.
 Assessment: Assessment is by coursework only (normally 
an essay of 3,500 to 5,000 words with the length to be agreed with the Supervisor and Programme Director). The presentation of the coursework must be in 
accordance with the departmental and College guidelines with regards to 
formatting, citation, and bibliography.

 Compulsory for: None.
 Optional for: MA/MSc Digital Humanities. 

 Prerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for 
this module, although the formal approval of the Programme Director is 
required before any student can be registered for this module. 
 Taught by: Dependent on subject. The usual format is 
for one initial meeting between the student and Supervisor to set the 
timetable and agree a plan. This should then be followed by two further 
supervisory meetings later in the term to review the progress of the 
student.  
 Deadlines: as this module either follows up on topics 
from taught modules or acts as preparation for the dissertation it is 
generally only available in Term 2. To be registered for this module the
 proposal must be agreed with the Programme Director and potential 
Supervisor by the end of the first week of Term 2. To allow for this 
research proposals must be submitted to the Programme Director by the 
last day of Term 1. For guidance on what is expected in a research 
proposal see the DH Dissertation Page. The 
coursework submission date will be agreed with the Supervisor at the 
first meeting.

				    Information Studies
				    
				This course provides a foundation in information science, particularly for those without a formal information background. It serves as an introduction to key concepts of information science, and shows their relationship to professional practice; engages students with issues relating to the application of technology to the information world; and provides a grounding in key aspects of the professional body of knowledge required by CILIP (Chartered Institute of Library and Information Professionals).Learning outcomes: Upon successful completion of this course, you will have an understanding of the key concepts and issues of the academic discipline of information science, and be able to appreciate the relevance and practical application of these concepts and issues to professional information practiceThis module runs on Friday afternoons in term 1.Module OutlineThis module is being redesigned for 2013-14 to focus on small group tutorial teaching and the final timetable will not be available until shortly before term commences. However, topics which will be covered will include:Information Science and Theories of InformationUsability and User-Centered DesignInformation Seeking BehaviourKnowledge OrganisationInformation RetrievalInformation Communication models, the publication process Information Society and Information EconomicsInformation Quality, trust and ethicsPreliminary Reading:Bawden, D. & Robinson, L. Introduction to Information Science. Facet, 2012Gilchrist, A. (ed) Information Science in transition. London: Facet, 2009Nicholas, D. & Rowlands, I. (eds) Digital consumers : reshaping the information professions. London : Facet, 2008Svenonius, E. The intellectual foundation of information organization. London : MIT Press, 2000Krug, S. Don't make me think! A commonsense approach to web usability 2nd ed. Berkeley: New Riders, 2006Norman, D. The design of everyday things. Basic books, 2002 (2013 revised ed. in press)Assessment: Assessment by coursework only (including peer assessment)Compulsory for: None - However N.B. MSc IS students have a directly equivalent compulsory module  G054 Optional for: MA LIS, MA ECP, MA ARM, MA/MSc DH. This module is also available for short course studentsPrerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this module, but participants are assumed to have keyboarding skills and a basic level of computer experience with a PC environment. If in doubt, you are advised to discuss this with the course lecturer before beginning this moduleTaught by: Andy DawsonFurther information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				This course provides a foundation in information science, particularly for those without a formal information background. It serves as an introduction to key concepts of information science, and shows their relationship to professional practice; engages students with issues relating to the application of technology to the information world; and provides a grounding in key aspects of the professional body of knowledge required by CILIP (Chartered Institute of Library and Information Professionals).Learning outcomes: Upon successful completion of this course, you will have an understanding of the key concepts and issues of the academic discipline of information science, and be able to appreciate the relevance and practical application of these concepts and issues to professional information practice This module takes place on Friday afternoons in term 1.Module OutlineThis module is being redesigned for 2013-14 to focus on small group tutorial teaching and the final timetable will not be available until shortly before term commences. However, topics which will be covered will include:Information Science and Theories of InformationUsability and User-Centered DesignInformation Seeking BehaviourKnowledge OrganisationInformation RetrievalInformation Communication models, the publication process Information Society and Information EconomicsInformation Quality, trust and ethicsPreliminary Reading:Bawden, D. & Robinson, L. Introduction to Information Science. Facet, 2012Gilchrist, A. (ed) Information Science in transition. London: Facet, 2009Nicholas, D. & Rowlands, I. (eds) Digital consumers : reshaping the information professions. London : Facet, 2008Svenonius, E. The intellectual foundation of information organization. London : MIT Press, 2000Krug, S. Don't make me think! A commonsense approach to web usability 2nd ed. Berkeley: New Riders, 2006Norman, D. The design of everyday things. Basic books, 2002 (2013 revised ed. in press)Assessment: Assessment by coursework and exam.Compulsory for: MSc IS Optional for: none - see instead the content equivalent module G053Prerequisites: None.Taught by: Andy DawsonFurther information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				This module introduces sales, marketing and promotional technoques and skills within modern print and digital publishing. It outlines how books and digital publications are sold, how sales channels are defined and actualised, how logistical systems operate and how the retail and wholesale sectors work. It discusses marketing theory and application and the role of promotion, advertising and social media applications.Assessment: Assessment by coursework onlyPrerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this moduleCompulsory for: MA PublishingModule leader: Nick Canty
				    Information Studies
				    
				This course will run on Fridays in Term 2 in 2016-17 (2pm-5pm), the tutor will be Andrew Flinn and the teaching room will be Foster Court G031 unless otherwise stated. This course provides an overview of the theory and practice of oral history from creation to curation for historians, social scientists, archivists, librarians, museum curators and all others interested in creating oral histories or tasked with looking after oral history materials. Thematically the course breaks down into six components:1. the historiography, varieties and applications of oral history;2. the ethics of oral history and similar qualitative research methods;3. planning and managing an oral history project;4. conducting successful interviews;5. after the interview – analyzing and using oral history in public, academic and other spheres, including consideration of use in the digital space;6. curation and the oral history archive – cataloguing and preserving oral history collections in digital environments.By the end of the course students should:· understand and be able to demonstrate the benefits and challenges of conducting oral history interviews; · have a sound knowledge of the history of oral history and the variety of applications and techniques; · be able to plan and accomplish a successful oral history project; · understand the important role that oral history can play within wider history projects such as family, organisational, community or elite histories; · be aware of ethical challenges faced by oral historians before, during, and after the interview, and the approaches by which these challenges can be met; · have read widely and critically about oral history using journals, books and online materials; · have arranged, prepared, recorded, documented, and archived at least three interviews (or one extended life history interview); · be aware of the range of recording technologies and formats available to oral historians and some of challenges they pose; · explore the range of possibilities for transcribing, analyzing and using oral history materials in digital environments;· understand the importance of documentation within the oral history project for cataloguing and future use;· have an understanding of the different challenges involved in the preservation of oral history materials; · have explored the significant impact of the internet and digital formats for the use of and access to oral history; · be aware of a range of international oral history projects, institutions and associations. An indication of the structure and more detailed content of the module is given below (this is subject to change):Week 1 - Introduction and course overview. An introduction to Oral History and interviewingWeek 2 – The historiography of oral history and what makes oral history different? Week 3 – Planning an oral history projectWeek 4 – Interviewing: theory & practice (1). Preparing for and carrying out an oral history interview and projectWeek 5 – Interviewing: theory & practice (2). Class evaluation and reflections on practice interviewsWeek 7 – After the interview (1) Preparing for useWeek 8 – After the interview (2) Ethics, Transcription & Preservation in digital environments Week 9 - After the interview (3) Using oral history in a digital age. Future directions and challenges for oral history.Oral History is best understood through practice and doing. Although there will be elements of lecturing and more theoretical material, class discussions, collaborative working, visits and guest lecturers as well as actual interviewing experience and reflection will all contribute to the teaching and learning experience. The class will be expected to reflect critically and sensitively on each other’s practice interviews so that all may learn and improve their interviewing technique. Students are strongly encouraged to integrate their interview practice with the more theoretical and methodological approaches found in their reading. The assessment exercise is focused on the planning, carrying out and management of a small, practical oral history project.Taught by: Andrew Flinn This module is optional for all postgraduate students in the Department of Information Studies as well as students from other departments (with the agreement of their Home Department and the module tutor). This module is also available for short course studentsPrerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this module.Preliminary reading: It is not essential for students to read these or other texts before starting the module, although a little preliminary reading before the module begins can often be beneficial. All the following books can be found in the UCL library.Abrams, Lynn, Oral History Theory, Routledge (2010 or 2nd edition 2106) Perks, Robert and Alistair Thomson. The Oral History Reader 2nd edition. London: Routledge, 2006. (or 3rd edition, late 2015)Ritchie, Donald B. Doing Oral History. Oxford, OUP, 2003 (or 3rd edition, 2014)Thompson, Paul The Voice of the past: Oral History, Oxford, OUP 2000 Yow, Valerie Raleigh. Recording Oral History: A Guide for the Humanities and Social Sciences. 2nd ed. Walnut Creek, CA: Alta Mira, 2005 (or 3rd edition, 2014)The following websites have a wealth of useful materials for anyone interested in oral history theory and practice:Oral History SocietyOral History in the Digital AgeFurther information for students currently taking this module 
				    Information Studies
				    
				Term 1 and 2 core module for MA in Archives and Records Management students. This overarching module, running across terms one and two is intended to provide students with the necessary contextual and conceptual frameworks to fully understand the challenges of managing archives and records in hybrid and digital environments. It is intended that this module will provide the ‘concepts and contexts’ that will frame the other more applied modules in the programme that are taught alongside this module. The module will introduce students to the key terms and concepts relevant to developing an understanding of the discipline of archives and records management in a digital age, exploring the political, social, economic and legal contexts in which archives and record managers operate, identify significant continuities and changes in professional conceptual thinking and practice and give consideration of questions of professional identity, ethics and practice in a digital age. Among the topics to be included are conceptual and theoretical models relating to the management of archives and records, professional terminology and definitions, the spectrum of digital knowledge and information management and the place of archives and records management within that spectrum, legislative frameworks and access to information rights, organizational, community and personal approaches to record keeping, digital convergences and the challenges of digital preservation and stewardship, and the utility of participatory, collaborative and non-custodial approaches in supplementing traditional professional practices in managing archives and records.This module will be delivered across both term 1 and term 2 through a combination of lectures (60 – 90 minutes per week), small group seminar teaching (2 hours every fortnight), individual and group directed study, attendance at visits and other relevant learning events, and participation in online discussions. Module readings, course materials, online discussions and other resources will be conducted through Moodle.At end of the module students will:This module will taught on Fridays am (lectures) and pm (seminars)Session by session (draft):Preliminary reading: It is not essential for students to read these or other texts before starting the module, although a little preliminary reading before the module begins can often be beneficial.Louise Craven, ‘From the Archivist’s Cardigan to the Very Dead Sheep: What are archives? What are archivists? What do they do?’, in What are archives?: cultural and theoretical perspectives : a reader, edited by L. Craven, Ashgate 2008Kate Cummings, 'Ways of seeing: contextualising the continuum', Records Management Journal 2010 20:1Eric Ketelaar, 'Cultivating archives: meanings and identities', Archival Science, (2012) 12:19–33Laura Millar, Archives: Principles and Practices. Facet 2010.This module will be taught by Jenny Bunn, Andrew Flinn, Anna Sexton, Elizabeth Shepherd Further details on this module can be found here
				    Information Studies
				    
				Curation and Stewardship deals with the issues and activities involved in maintaining authentic and usable records over time and through change. It aims to enable students to build a clear appreciation of the vulnerability of the physical and virtual record, and to develop the knowledge and skills to ensure that such records are maintained and that the risks to them are properly addressed and managed. To this end, students should, by the end of the module, be able to;An indication of the structure and more detailed content of the module is given below;The method of delivery will be mixed, involving lectures, class discussion, practical sessions and seminars. There is also a two-week work placement attached to this module, which takes place at the beginning of term 3. The module is assessed by two pieces of coursework, one to be submitted at the beginning of term 2 and the other following the work placement in term 3. Taught by: Jenny Bunn
 and Jonathan Rhys-Lewis in term 1. Compulsory for: Those registered on the MA in Archives and
 Records Management from 2012-2013 onwards. Optional for: The course is also available for short course 
studentsPrerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites, although some 
familiarity with archives and records management services is assumed.Preliminary reading: It is not essential for students to read these or other texts before starting the module, although a little preliminary reading before the module begins can often be beneficial.Forde, Helen. Preserving Archives. London: Facet, 2007.Millar, Laura. Archives: Principles and Practices. London: Facet, 2010.Ritzenthaler, Mary Lynn. Preserving Archives & Manuscripts. Chicago: Society of American Archivists, c2010.The National Archives, Archives and Records - a selection of useful resources.Williams, Caroline. Managing Archives; Foundations, Principles and Practice. Oxford: Chandos, 2006.More detailed reading lists and further information for students currently taking this module 
				    Information Studies
				    
				The module is intended as an introduction to knowledge and logic-based information technologies, using logic programming as the primary example of knowledge-based reasoning, and the Semantic Web as the primary example of a knowledge-based application area.Learning outcomes: By the end of the module, students will have a basic understanding of logic, and the relationship of logic to formal knowledge representation and reasoning. They will have an elementary knowledge of logic programming and be able to write basic programs in Prolog. Students will understand the underlying ideas of Semantic Web and its layered architecture, and will have a basic knowledge of its main technologies including ontology, ontology languages and query languages.Module Structure: The first five sessions focus on Logic Programming, while sessions 6 to 10 focus on the Semantic Web.Assessment: Assessment by coursework onlyOptional for: MA Archives and Records Management, MA Library and Information Studies, MA Publishing, MSc Information Science, MA/MSc Digital Humanities, MA in Electronic Communication & Publishing, MRes in Library, Archive & Information Studies. This module is also available for short course studentsPrerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this moduleTaught by: Rob Miller, Antonis BikakisTimetable: Thursdays 2-5pm in Term 2Essential Reading:Other Reading:Further information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				This module will serve as a practice-led introduction to the digitisation of cultural and heritage materials in the library, archive, museums and galleries sector. It is an advanced level module taught in two ways: theory and principle led lectures and tutorials, and hands on sessions in the computer lab and in the UCLDH Multi-modal digitisation suite (a custom built space for teaching and researching digitization at UCL).  This module will also involve close liaison with UCL Museums and Collections, UCL Library Special Collections, and UCL Media Services to provide practical hands on teaching to understand the technical underpinnings but practical application of digitisation in the cultural and heritage sector.Subjects to be covered include:•	Principles of digitisation•	Handling of objects and documents•	Digitisation studio set up•	Metadata and object information•	Use and Usability of digitised content•	2D versus 3D digitisation•	Funding and costs•	The digitisation lifecycle – from institutional store to digital repository•	Best practice in digitisationOn successful completion of this module students will be able to:1.	Assess objects for digitisation, and understand handling conditions2.	Undertake 2D digitisation of archival material (using SLR and scanner) using best practice principles3.	Be aware of the various 2D and 3D technologies available for digitisation in the cultural and heritage sector4.	Understand the technical underpinnings of digitisation, including capture methods, file formats, compression methods, etc.5.	Understand metadata and preservation issues related to digitisation6.	Understand how and why digitisation technologies have been employed throughout the GLAM sector7.	Understand the technological and financial frameworks which have encouraged the uptake of digitisation8.	Have an awareness of the complete digitisation life cycle, from transportation of object from store, to deposit of digital surrogates in institutional repository (and beyond)9.	Be familiar with key technologies: both hardware and software.Each teaching session consists of a lecture plus at least one other session, which may be a practical, guest lecture, or visit to a resource.Assessment: Assessment by coursework only. A group digitisation project plus written commentary, and individual reflection essay.Compulsory for:  No studentsOptional for: numbers will be limited to 20 students with priority given to those on the MA/MSc in Digital Humanities followed by other DIS students, if numbers allow.Prerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this module.Taught by: Kathryn PiquetteTimetable: Further information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				 N.B. This module will be run for the last time in 2016/17. Digital curation is now mainstream archival practice and the decision has been taken to stop running a separate optional module.   This module is designed as an introduction to the emerging field of digital curation. The working definition used by the course is that digital curation is the activity involved in; focusing and maintaining attention on the need to preserve digital material over the long-term, and planning, managing and undertaking the actions required to make that happen. Consequently to work in digital curation you need to be able to; This course will support you in developing the skills you need to carry out the above. In particular it will allow you to familiarise yourself with; the history of digital curation and how it has emerged as a 'new' area of interest, the current shape of digital curation, and existing practice, tools and techniques in the area. The module is structured as follows; The module will be taught using a mix of independent study/guided reading, lectures, class discussion and practical exercises. It will be assessed by a portfolio of work to be handed in during term 3.Taught by: Jenny Bunn on Wednesdays in term 2. 
 Compulsory for: This course is not compulsory for anyone.  Optional for: The course is available for all postgraduate taught students within the Department of Information Studies. Prerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites, although you will need to be comfortable with technology and have intermediate ICT skills (ability to download and install software).  Preliminary reading: It is not essential for students to read these or other texts before starting the module, although a little preliminary reading before the module begins can often be beneficial.  Brown, Adrian. Practical Digital preservation: a how-to guide for organisations of any size. London: Facet, 2013. Harvey, Ross. Digital curation: a how-to-do-it manual. London: Facet, 2010. Various. Curation Reference Manual. Digital Curation Centre. Any articles that take your fancy from the International Journal of Digital Curation.  More detailed reading lists and further information for students currently taking this module 
				    Information Studies
				    
				This week-long module
at the start of term 1 will serve as an introduction to publishing today,
giving students an immersive experience into the contexts involved so that the
other modules can build on this initial learning and understanding. Topics
covered will  include: an introduction to publishing houses and their
histories; the impact of publishing; publishers as merchants of culture;
selling books; an introduction to basic ethical and legal contexts, professional conduct. Publishing is a fast-moving business, and this
immersive module will ensure all students on the MA
Publishing are fully prepared for the contexts and issues they will encounter
in the other modules on the course. The
module will be team-taught, involving guest speakers from the industry, and
visits to key places of interest. Module Leaders: Dr Daniel Boswell and Jon Newbury
				    Information Studies
				    
				Understanding how you can manipulate, use and re-purpose content in publishing is vital and this module will examine the creative management of content in digital and physical contexts. It will consider how content is managed in different sectors of publishing (education, reference, academic and trade), as well as considering the different technical platforms publishers use such as XML, HTML and EPUB3. Prerequisites: None (Optional Module) Module Tutors: Heather O'Connell and Nick Canty
				    Information Studies
				    
				This module will introduce
students to the processes involved in handling authors and their works. It will include an introduction to publishing
law (contracts, IP and copyright, rights management), as well as looking at the
role of the editor (commissioning) and the agent. Book events and social media management will
also be included.  Assessment: An Author Toolkit (A curated and edited collection of advice and guidance for dealing with authors)  3000 words or equivalentCore Module for: MA PublishingOptional for:  no other programmes at presentPrerequisites:  No pre-requisites neededTaught by: Dr Samantha Rayner
				    Information Studies
				    
				Publishing Skills is designed to give students exposure to key skills areas for publishing, including a working knowledge of the capabilities and uses for core software packages. Classes introduce design concepts across editorial, production and marketing, whilst significant lab time will allow you to explore the available learning materials and practice their creative application.The module will include technical training and self-directed learning in InDesign, Nielsen Bookscan and other relevant publishing software packages. Students will learn about the importance of metadata and challenges in the online world. In addition students will learn about copyediting, and proofreading (including page layout and design).Masterclasses from expert guest speakers will supplement foundational knowledge and introduce additional skills areas or types of software used by publishers.Learning Outcomes:Assessment: A portfolio of skills evidence, and the submission of a reflective report on your learning and development across the module of no more than 3000 words.Terms 1 and 2: Compulsory for students on the MA in Publishing programme.Prerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this module.Module leader: Jon NewburyFurther information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				This module will
introduce you to entrepreneurial practice in business. You will learn about the
skills and approaches needed to successfully implement your own entrepreneurial
ideas and projects, and we will discuss new entrepreneurial enterprises in the field
of contemporary publishing. We will consider core areas of business management
which a successful entrepreneur must be able to negotiate, including publishing
finance, project leadership and relationship management. We will also consider
the legal dimensions of developing properties and brands and, in the second
half of the module, look at some of the practical tools and technologies that
can assist entrepreneurs today.   Compulsory for: Those registered on the
MA in Publishing programme from 2016Prerequisites: There are no formal
prerequisitesAssessment A self-directed
assessment (3000 words or equivalent). Students must conceive of their own
‘case study’ on an aspect of entrepreneurialism as it applies to
publishing. The student must set the key criteria for evaluation of the work
themselves, demonstrating their understanding of topic and objective
interpretation and analysis of essays. The other criteria (representing 50%) of
the work relate to quality of writing and presentation of analysis. Module leader: Daniel Boswell 
				    Information Studies
				    
				The aim of this module is to provide students with historical context and an up to date working knowledge of the academic publishing sector, including current developments. The opportunities for publishers within this area are varied and exciting, providing exposure to cutting-edge ideas and researchers with an international outlook and global importance.Academic publishing, and its supporting services, represents by far the largest and most important area of publishing in terms of revenues and employment. Knowledge sharing continues to expand as research centres in previously closed marketplaces (such as in India, East-Asia and more recently South-America) enter the global market. Books and journals remain the most common forms in which research is disseminated but technological developments are advancing (specifically in the areas of dissemination, metadata and analytics) and where varied types of publisher draw skills, inspiration and business models. It is an area of publishing uniquely drawn into institutional, governmental and international policy-making.This module will run throughout the spring term. Students will be introduced to the core concepts surrounding scholarly communication and dissemination, key stakeholders and operational and strategic requirements of an academic publisher.Topics include: scholarly communication, peer review, process management, "impact" measurement, analytics, discipline variance, open access (OA), financial and business modelling. Some attention will be given to the differences between trade, academic, education and professional publishers. Students will benefit from guest speakers with experience from within industry leading publishing houses across various disciplines.Learning outcomesAssessment: An academic essay or report of no more than 3000 words.Term 2: Optional for students on the MA in Publishing programme.Prerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this module.Module Leader: Jon NewburyFurther information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				This module looks at
the dynamic and challenging contexts of children’s publishing. It will include an introduction to the major
players in each area, including picture books and Young Adult, as well as
sessions on product safety development, merchandising, and digital innovations
via apps, enhanced ebooks and games. 


  Learning Outcomes: Students will gain knowledge and understanding in:•The histories and contexts of children’s publishing•The key players today in children’s publishing•The key developments in children’s publishing•Issues in this area of publishing, including safety procedures, ethical and cultural considerations, marketing and building loyaltyFurther information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				This
module provides publishing students with an insight into the business of creating
content for the schools and higher education market. The course focuses on
issues and debates and students are encouraged to relate what they are learning
to breaking industry news. The module is
taught by Dr Penelope Woolf and there will be a number of leading industry
professionals as guest speakers.· Change: structure of the business; business models· Key opportunities & challenges for the industry
· Publishing skills and employability· The digital transition · New competition· Pace of technological change· From content to services & solutions· What is a publisher?· Government policy & agendas in constant flux.· The development of textbook publishing· Commissioning and exploiting content · Reaching your target market· Key publishers and their strategy· Publishing as a global business· Competition: traditional and non-traditional
(publishers, digital start-ups, Open Educational Resources)· Breaking news e.g. Massive Open Online Courses
(MOOCs), legal cases· Policy e.g. the introduction of a new National
Curriculum in Sept. 2014· HE publishing: from content i.e. textbooks to
service and solutions. What does this mean for the industry? The course will
include case studies and activities. There will be master classes from leading figures from publishing,
digital partners, and a world-renowned textbook author. There will be a
visit to Palgrave Macmillan and the opportunity to meet and interact with publishing
professionals.Assessment: By courseworkOptional for: MA Publishing students  Delivered by: Dr. Penelope Woolf
and guest speakers.
 
				    Information Studies
				    
				The module considers the theory and practice of Information Literacy and associated topics such as Digital Scholarship from a library and information professional viewpoint. The recent history of information literacy (née bibliographic instruction) will provide context for a detailed review of theoretical models and practical approaches using real life examples from the wide information landscape. As the need for librarians to develop their teaching skills gathers apace, pedagogical approaches will be discussed and examined. A range of other skills and attributes (communicator, technician, networker, marketer, researcher) are also required for successful development and delivery of IL and the challenges arising from this will be investigated. This course is designed and taught on the assumption that participants will be able to allocate approximately 3-4 hours of private study to it per week during the weeks in which is it taught, in addition to the 3 hours per week of scheduled lectures, plus extra hours for completion of the assessment.Students taking this optional module will examine in detail the key issues from a professional perspective around information literacy as “Knowing when and why you need information, where to find it, and how to evaluate, use and communicate it in an ethical manner” (CILIP, PKSB, 2012, p.28).Guide programmePreliminary reading - there is no set text for this module. These general texts all contain appropriate materials. You may find them interchangeable and you do not need to read them all. The Introductory chapter of these texts should provide you with a useful initial guide to the subject. For a wide view of current thinking in this area take a look at the Journal of Information Literacy Assessment: Assessment by coursework onlyOptional for: MA Library and Information Studies. This module is also available for short course students. Prerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this module Taught by: Dr Charles InskipFurther information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				The
 module will discuss the theories and concepts associated with the 
publishing function and its associated activities including reading, 
writing, textual criticism and editing, and the dissemination and 
circulation of books and information. The interaction of the book with 
society will be a key theme of the module. ObjectivesModule Leader: Dr Daniel Boswell 
				    Information Studies
				    
				The course is a required module for all new doctoral students 
registered in DIS and for MRes students, with some activities for 
continuing students (years 2, 3 and above). It is designed as a 
foundation for research study in DIS. The course for first year students will be delivered by a weekly face
 to face 2 hour seminar over 2 terms to be held 15.00-17.00, on 
Tuesdays. The course will be facilitated by Elizabeth Shepherd (e.shepherd@ucl.ac.uk), with input from colleagues from across DIS and UCL. There will be regular student-led sessions.Fuller details can be found on the Moodle page, if you are an enrolled student.Doctoral
 students will be asked to present their research progress in class but 
are not required to submit formal coursework for academic credit. MRes 
students may choose this module as one of their assessed modules (15 
credits) and in this case will be asked to submit written coursework in a
 portfolio agreed with the module tutor.
				    Information Studies
				    
				This optional module is now full for the academic year 2017/18.The course considers the theory and practice of Information Governance (IG). IG is an emerging multidisciplinary field which straddles four domains:This module explores the key information governance concepts, theories, standards and models, including their development. Through the critical analysis of these principles students will be provided with strategies and tools for establishing an information governance framework in the workplace to meet legal, regulatory, organisational and societal needs. The course is designed to develop workplace skills for a range of occupations including compliance officers, data managers, information and records managers, information security managers, IT, lawyers, librarians and risk managers. The course consists of 10 weeks of lectures and discussions on Monday afternoons (2-5pm) in term two (commencing January 2017). The course assumes that in addition to attending these lectures participants will be able to allocate approximately 3-4 hours of private study per week during the weeks in which is it taught, plus extra hours for completion of the assessment.By the end of this module students will be able to demonstrate:Module topicsPreliminary reading - there is no set text for this module as this module cuts across disciplines. These texts all contain relevant materials. You may find them interchangeable and you do not need to read them all. Assessment: Assessment by coursework onlyOptional for: DIS students including MA Archives and Records Management, MA Library and Information Studies, , MA/MSc in Digital Humanities, MSc in Information Science (depending upon timetabling), MRes in Information Studies, MA in Library & Information Studies, MA in Publishing . Other UCL Departments: This course is also open to students from other UCL Departments. This module is also available for short course students. Prerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this module Taught by: Dr Elizabeth Lomas For any enquiries please contact e.lomas@ucl.ac.uk 
				    Information Studies
				    
				This module will introduce you to the exciting and varied field of illustrated publishing. Over the course of the module we will look at the past, present and potential futures of Comic Books, reference works (such as cookbooks) and textbook publications. Concepts such as visual language will be considered, as well as some basic design theory and semiotic considerations. Where possible there may also be some visits from industry-based guest speakers.  Formal Prerequisites: noneMust be taken by: Optional module (max 30 spaces)Module Leader: Daniel Boswell 
				    Information Studies
				    
				This module is designed to introduce students to the histories and impacts of booksellers and bookselling on our cultural and intellectual lives. It will look at how the role of the bookseller has shifted over time, from the medieval period through to the present day, and will explore the ways that booksellers trained, organised, and represented themselves. It will look at the rise of the Net Book Agreement, the growth and decline of the bookshop chains, the growing dominance of online retailers and the accompanying resurgence of the independent bookshop. It will also explore the value added activities that booksellers participate in, such as Reading Groups, Literary Festivals, Events, and Readings.  Optional Module - Term 2Prerequisites: There are no formal prerequisitesModule Leader: Dr Samantha Rayner
				    Information Studies
				    
				 Aims: The module is intended as an introduction to machine learning and data science. The course focuses on the principles underlying probabilistic and statistical approaches, introducing a small number of explicit methodologies as exemplars, and looking at how these should be applied and evaluated by the careful practitioner.Intended Learning Outcomes: By the end of the course,
students will have a basic understanding of supervised learning (regression and
classi_cation) and unsupervised learning (clustering and dimensionality
reduction). They will be able to: apply methodologies in each of these problem
domains; to assess the suitability of approaches to a constrained set of tasks;
and employ common techniques to evaluate a methodology's performance.

Content: Students will study a selection of machine learning
techniques, including theoretical underpinnings and po-tential applications. In
the process, students will gain some mathematical insight about these (and
related) approaches to probabilistic & statistical models, their strengths
and weaknesses, and how to e_ectively evaluate their performance on data. A
signi_cant proportion of the course involves hands on experience of using and
evaluating these techniques on real world data. A brief outline of the topics
covered is as follows:Delivery: Course will be delivered through lectures,
tutorials, seminars and computing laboratory work. Where possible, there will
be learning through practical work (e.g. programming), with an exposure to real
world data. Potential tasks/data sets for exploring methods include: botanical
sample descriptions for species classification; census data for predicting income
levels; chemical constituents of food and drink; feature descriptions of images
for clinical diagnosis; human activity recognition from smartphone data; and
preprocessed text documents for clustering.

As currently planned [June 6, 2017] the tutorial and lab
work will involve programming in python. However, the decision on this is yet
to be made. A short primer will be available for students unfamiliar with the
chosen programming language.Prerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites required
for this module in terms of other modules taken at UCL. However, the module
assumes mathematical knowledge roughly equivalent to an A-level in the subject,
including: some basic calculus (differentiation and integration); statistics;
linear algebra and related concepts.
				    Information Studies
				    
				 This module represents the final research element of the taught Masters' courses.  Learning outcomes: By the end of the module, students will have 
investigated in depth a topic of their choice, learned how to plan and 
execute a research strategy, and understood how to present research 
results  Assessment: Assessment by coursework only  Compulsory for: MA/MSc DH, MA LIS, MA ARM, MA RAMI, MA Publishing, MSc IS  Optional for: This module is also available for short course students Prerequisites: Completion of the taught element of the programme.
  At the discretion of the Programme Director, Diploma students who have
 demonstrated good progress on the taught course may be able to change 
their registration to the Master's degree and undertake the Dissertation
 module
 Taught by: There is no formal teaching for the dissertation. A 
Research Methods one day Boot Camp for all students is held on the first day of reading week in the Spring Term, and 
many aspects of good research practice (literature searching, project 
planning, bibliographic referencing) are embedded in the taught 
programmes Dissertation students are allocated an appropriate supervisor for their 
topic. Students may negotiate with the supervisor the number and form of
 their tutorials, although three is regarded as the 'standard'.  If 
convenient, email may be used as an alternative to face-to-face 
tutorials  Further information for students currently taking this module
                                      URL:
                                      http://www.ucl.ac.uk/dis/study/pg/MAMScDH
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
				    Information Studies
				    
				The Archives and Records Management MA provides the skills and knowledge
 that are needed by new entrants to the profession in the United Kingdom
 and abroad. Students learn to manage and preserve records created in 
the present and those inherited from the past for use in the present and
 future.In 2012-2013 this programme was merged with the MA/Diploma/
Certificate in Records and Archives Management (International) to create a more
digitally aware and internationalised curriculum designed for students from the
UK and overseas who intend to pursue a career in archives or records
management. The
programme focuses on the management of records and archives in a variety of
digital and hard copy formats. Students learn to manage, organise, interpret and
provide access to a wide range of records and archives, focussing on both the
management of records for on-going purposes, and their selection, preservation
and accessibility for future uses including historical research. Archives and records management at UCL is one of the 
longest-established archive education programmes in the English speaking
 world. Taught by leading experts in the field, the programme draws on 
staff's involvement in innovative projects as well as their extensive 
practical experience of archives and records work. Indeed, although the 
programme’s content and structure have changed greatly over the years, 
keeping pace with developments in the archives and records disciplines 
and in information technology, the UCL programme continues to maintain 
the highest standards in the teaching of archival principles and 
practice, as laid down by its founder, Sir Hilary Jenkinson. UCL's teaching and research staff are regular participants 
in innovative projects such as the InterPARES Trust, a multinational 
research project investigating recordkeeping in the Cloud, assoicated 
research on open government and open data; the Community Archives and 
Identities project, which investigated the importance of community 
archives and their role in the production of community identity; and 
other projects which explore collaborative and participatory approaches 
to cultural and heritage practice. Teaching at UCL draws on the staff's 
involvement in leading-edge projects such as these, as well as their 
extensive practical experience of archives and records work, to ensure a
 quality learning experience for all students.  The
programme boasts an impressive range of visiting speakers and frequent
opportunities for structured field visits to study archives and records
management in a wide variety of working environments and
a two week archive work placement, all of which provide unique occasions to
network and create professional links with key players in the industry. London is home to not only a large number of records management services, but also the broadest and finest
grouping of historical archives in any city in the English-speaking world.These modules aim to provide a solid foundation of conceptual knowledge and practical skills. Students' individual interests can be explored in depth through two optional modules.All MA students undertake an independent research project which culminates in a dissertation of 10,000-12,000 words.All Masters/PG Diploma students do a 2-week placement. For more information see the Features tab.The programme is delivered through a combination of lectures, seminars, computer laboratory practicals and classroom practicals, with a strong emphasis on informal teaching and the acquisition of practical skills. Assessment is through a mixture of essays, reports, and practical assignments such as cataloguing and complex problem solving scenarios.The work placement gives students taking the MA/Dip in ARM experience of how the techniques they have learned may be applied in practice. Placements last for two weeks, and are undertaken as part of the INSTG060 Curation and Capture core module just after the beginning of Term 3 (May). We arrange placements individually for each student and do our best to match the placement with their interests and experience. If you are considering hosting a student, please email Jenny Bunn (j.bunn@ucl.ac.uk).The dissertation is only undertaken by students taking the Masters in Archives and Records Management. The purpose of the dissertation is to develop the ability to work at an advanced intellectual level; to encourage sustained effort; to foster critical and analytical thinking; to provide experience in independent investigation and research to allow the student to pursue in depth a topic of personal professional interest; to develop knowledge and skills relevant to that area of practice; to promote the idea of personal professional development and contribution to the corpus of professional and scholarly literature. A Postgraduate Certificate (60 credits, full-time 15 weeks 
or flexible study over a period of up to two years) is offered. The PG 
Certificate comprises four taught modules selected by the student in 
consultation with the Programme Director, and is a shorter programme of 
study, which is not accredited by the Archives and Records Association 
and not recognised as a full professional qualification. It is designed 
for those who wish to gain some basic knowledge of archives or records 
management, but are not (currently) intending to take it up as a 
professional career. The academic and work experience entry requirements are similar to those required of the MA/PG Dip in ARM. if you wish to discuss suitability for entry to this programme, please contact the Programme Director. Depending on the modules chosen, the Certificate may be 
completed in approximately a half year of full-time study (late 
September-late January and/or early January-early June). Applicants to the PG Cert apply in the normal way: you may 
choose to apply online or download application materials; for details 
visit www.ucl.ac.uk/gradappsIn term time, classes are held in the morning (10:00-1:00) or afternoon 
(2:00-5:00). In addition, time should be allowed for private study and 
for completion of coursework. Classes are normally held on UCL's main 
site in Gower Street, London WC1; field visits and practical sessions 
may involve travel to other central London locations. There is a two-week practical placement in late April or early May.Full-time study for the MA requires a calendar year (September-September), with the summer months being occupied by work on the MA dissertation. Students studying part-time over 2 years,
attending on average two days per week, depending on which modules are selected per year/term.Distance learning courses are not offered at this time at UCL, but modular attendance  is available for 
the MA/PG Diploma in Archives and Records Management. Modular students have between 2-5 years to complete the programme. In their first year modular students start off by taking the core module G059 Concepts
and Contexts which is a double module. Generally, after that modular students will take another core module
such as G060 Curation and Stewardship or G032 Records
Management, plus one optional module. The downloadable timetable below will give you an idea of the order of the programme.Depending on the modules chosen, the Certificate may be completed in approximately a half year of full-time study (late September-late January or early January-early June), or may be taken more gradually over nine months (late September-early June).The timetable provided serves only as a guide. Final timetables are made available at enrolment.Download a sample timetable.Academic: A minimum of an upper second-class Bachelor's degree in a relevant discipline from a UK university or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard. Work experience: A significant period of paid or voluntary employment in an archive or records service, or in a post with management responsibility for archives or records.   Some applicants take paid work at pre-professional level; others obtain
some or all of their experience on a voluntary basis. The Forum for Archives
and Records Management Education and Research (FARMER), of which UCL is a
member, has published guidance for applicants seeking work experience in
archives and records management.  Suitable posts are often advertised on the archives-nra listserv which
anyone can join free of charge. The Archives and Records Association may also
be able to put applicants in touch with employers offering suitable short-term
vacancies. The National Archives (TNA) in London offers 2 nationally-available bursaries are
designed to address the socio-economic barriers that exist for some who are
considering entering into the archives sector. English language proficiency: The programme is taught in English. Applications from any country in the world are welcomed, provided the applicant has an acceptable command of the English language. Please view details about UCL’s English language proficiency requirement.APL may be considered for advanced entry to a
 UCL taught programme where a student has already 
completed certified learning of a UCL
 programme e.g. a student who has completed a UCL PG Diploma and wishes to 
enrol on a UCL Masters. Please view details about UCL's Accredited Prior Learning Scheme. Students are advised to apply as early as possible due 
to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding 
(particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application 
deadlines. Deadlines: The initial deadline for applications is 12 January 2018. Applications received by 12 January 2018 will be 
considered for interview in February/March and the majority of the 
places on the programme will be filled following these interviews. Later
 applications (especially from overseas applicants) may be considered 
until 30 June in the year for which entry is sought, but at this stage 
fewer places are likely to be available and places cannot be guaranteed.Required documentation: Applicants should provide two references,
which will normally include an academic reference and a reference from your
current employer (i.e. your line manager or similar). A transcript of results
from your previous academic institution should also be included. It is usually
possible to obtain confirmation of your results, even if you graduated some
years ago.
 

Online applications will not usually be processed until they are complete i.e.
the necessary documents are all uploaded.
 
  The programme is open to all candicates who meet the 
entry requirements and are interested in a career in archives and 
records management. The MA/Postgraduate Diploma provides a foundation 
education for graduates who are seeking to enter the profession of 
archivist/records manager, and is accredited by the Archives and Records
 Association.  The Postgraduate Certificate is a programme with some 
professional elements, but is not wide-ranging enough for recognition as
 a professional qualification. When we assess your application we would like to learn:Processing applications

Your application will initially be dealt with by the UCL Registry, and then
passed to the Department where it will be checked. You will be told that your
papers have been received, and are being processed. At this stage you may be
asked to provide further information, or to clarify any ambiguities; this
doesn't mean that there is a problem with the application.
 

Contact with applicants is usually via email, so be sure that your account
details are current and correct, and that you check the account regularly. Please
feel free to email us with any queries or problems you may have.  Interviews

UCL:DIS has a policy of interviewing all suitably qualified applicants, either
in person or via Skype and no-one is offered a place without interview. The
main block of interviews takes place in mid-February.
However, if places are still available afer these interviews, we will continue to invite suitably qualified
applicants as and when applications are received. Interview candidates will normally be seen by two members of
staff, and the interview, which lasts about 30 minutes, is relatively informal.
You won't be expected to give a presentation.   Most candidates will apply for either
full-time or part-time study. If you are not sure which you want, please
mention this at interview. Letting you know the outcome

The main block of interviewees will be told the outcome of their interviews in
March. Anyone interviewed after the main block timetabled for mid-February will
be told the outcome of their interview 3-4 weeks after their interview.  Because UCL is a popular university we
usually have more applicants than places, and unfortunately even well qualified
candidates may be disappointed. We seldom turn anyone down because there is
'something wrong' with the application, but usually simply because there is too
large a number of good potential students. We take into account a combination
of academic achievement, work experience, and performance at interview, with
none of these being more important than the others.  Successful candidates
will be sent further information during the course of the summer, and you
should also watch the Departmental website.   You can change to part-time study at any time before the
start of the programme.   UCL offers different types of
accommodation to suit different students' requirements: there are halls of
residence, student houses and intercollegiate halls. Information about applying
for accommodation is available on the website of the UCL student residence
office. Students are also free to make their own accommodation arrangements,
but are recommended to live within easy travelling distance of UCL. If you are
offered a place at DIS, it will be important to arrange accommodation before
you arrive in London.   International applicants that are
offered a place at UCL:DIS, should familiarize themselves with the information
UCL provides to help international
students with arriving, living and studying in London, especially any visa requirements.Students often take casual jobs at evenings or
weekends to provide a small supplement to their income. Full-time students
often undertake casual paid employment at evenings or weekends, but full-time
study cannot be combined with a part-time job.What follows is supplementary to UCL's information on Fees, Costs and Funding,
 and should not be considered without reference to that first. To search
 for details of programme specific tuition fees, follow the relevant 
links to the tuition fees table and search by 'Programme Title'.The UK government has introduced student
loans from 2016/17. Full details are available on https://www.gov.uk/funding-for-postgraduate-study. Loan applications,
eligibility, queries and decisions will be dealt with directly by the
government, not by UCL.  One scholarship is available for prospective students on the MA in Archives and Records Management. Value £1,000.Deadline There is no separate scholarship application procedure.Application and Information There is no separate scholarship application procedure or 
form. All eligible applicants for the programme will be considered for 
the award of this scholarship.  Awards will be announced in September. For further information, email: infostudies-enquiries@ucl.ac.uk The National Archives is offering a small number of nationally-available bursaries. These bursaries are designed to address the socio-economic barriers that exist for some who are considering entering into the archives sector.Scottish applicants may also be eligible for an award from the Student Awards Agency for Scotland.UCL does not offer any scholarships to international students on UCL:DIS taught Masters programmes. Many of our international students are successful in obtaining a grant from their home government or from funders such as the British Council.  UCL has a small number of scholarships (details on the Funding Options for Graduate Students webpages) but again, these are likely only to be awarded to students of exceptional academic ability.Most students are self-financing, relying on savings or career development
loans. Part-time work is fairly readily available
in London, and most full-time students can find something that fits in with the
course.The MA and Diploma are accredited by the Archives and Records Association and are widely recognised by employers throughout the UK as entry-level professional qualifications. Places of employment of recent students include: The
programme delivered by internationally recognised and research active staff
prepares students to work in a wide variety of traditional and non-traditional
archives and informational management roles in organisations in both the
private and public sectors, in the UK and internationally. Students benefit from the Department of Information Studies' excellent links
with employers in the information professions which provide them with 'real
life' experience through guest lectures, visits and a two-week work placement.
As part of the programme students also receive specific careers advice,
including how to construct CVs. In the longer term the programme equips
students with the skills and knowledge to have long and successful careers in
their chosen field and become leaders in their profession.Programme Director:  Core Teaching staff include: 
 A variety of other teaching staff from
across the profession will also teach on the programme, depending on modules
chosen, and the proposed dissertation topic.  Admissions enquiries:Laura Keshav Tel: +44 (20)7679 7204Email: l.keshav@ucl.ac.uk
				    Information Studies
				    
				Sorry, this Silva Document is not viewable.
                                      URL:
                                      http://www.ucl.ac.uk/dis/study/pg/instg018
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
				    Information Studies
				    
				Why study this programme?The MSc in Information Science prepares students for management roles in the information industries with an emphasis on technology: for example information systems manager, systems librarian, web manager, information architect, knowledge manager, data manager, or indeed any information management role. Our graduates find work all over the world with electronic systems for managing, retrieving, distributing and archiving vast quantities of information.The programme is suitable for:The programme includes both practical and theoretical work in which students develop a deeper understanding of not just the technologies themselves but also the implications of applying and managing these technologies in varied information environments. Its high levels of optionality allow students to tailor the programme to fit their individual needs, both in terms of content and study time.A typical student?Our students come from a very wide range of backgrounds, and a typical student is very hard to define. Many are already working in libraries, records centres, archives or other information units, and wish to deepen their knowledge of technical issues, undertake professional development, or gain a formal qualification to enhance their career prospects. Others increasingly come from a more computing-oriented background and want to specialise in the information fields and develop their information and management skills. Others may already be experts in niche areas but are looking to gain a broader range of expertise.As a result we have a very diverse student body, with ages ranging from the early 20s to mid 50s and a good mixture of UK, EU and overseas students. One of the tenets of the programme is that students should learn from each other as well as from the faculty, and benefit greatly from sharing their ideas and experience with each other.Entry requirementsThe standard UCL entrance requirements for postgraduate programmes will normally apply (a second class honours degree from a UK university or equivalent). However, relevant work experience is also taken into account, when the applicant already works in the industry. Candidates should normally be able to demonstrate experience of, or hold an existing qualification in, either an information or computing discipline.Programme StructureThe MSc Information Science programme may lead to one of three qualifications: an MSc, a Postgraduate Diploma, or a Postgraduate Certificate. Candidates for both the MSc and the Postgraduate Diploma complete eight taught modules, each worth 15 credits. MSc candidates must also complete a dissertation of 10,000-12,000 words, worth a further 60 credits. A distinction may be awarded for outstanding performance in the MSc. For the Postgraduate Certificate, candidates complete a shorter programme of any four agreed modules.Full-time: one calendar year (twelve months)Modular:Two to five calendar yearsFull-time: one academic year (nine months)Modular: two to five academic yearsModular: from one term to two yearsIt is also possible to attend single modules as a short course student for the purposes of continuing professional development.Programme ContentFor the MSc and Diploma, students study the following modules:Foundation module:Students must undertake the foundation module:INSTG054: Fundamentals of Information Science An introduction to a wide range of fundamental issues including aspects and principles of information theory, analysis, organisation, retrieval, management and science, Compulsory Modules:INSTG017: Internet TechnologiesCovers specifically web-related topic areas such as markup languages, website structuring and design, and dynamic generation and delivery of content, including the use of SQL and web database integration.INSTG018: Introduction to programming and database queryingIntroduces fundamental principles of procedural computer programming and database querying, reinforced by practical work in the context of automated web browser and document manipulation.INSTG007: Database systems analysis and designLooks at how common systems analysis and design methodologies are used in the context of developing computer-based information systems, including related areas such as needs analysis and data investigation.INSTG035: Systems ManagementInvestigates a wide range of topics and issues relating to computer systems management and operation, including project management, systems migration, data security, maintenance, user support, and many other systems management tasks.Optional modules:Students select three optional modules: common choices includeMSc dissertation projectIn addition, MSc students will undertake their own research, guided by an expert tutor, into a specific aspect of information technology and its application. This dissertation will form an integral part of the learning experience as well as making a major contribution to the collective research effort of DIS. The best dissertations may form the basis for a publication in a scholarly journal or a presentation at an academic conference. Students with connections to a sponsoring organisation (particularly modular students on day release) often undertake projects of direct relevance and benefit to their sponsoring organisation or place of work.ApplicationsPlease note that we DO NOT accept applications from agencies and we will not communicate with an agent regarding your application. We expect all applicants to complete their applications themselves.Application deadline: Normally 1 July in the year of entry, although late applications may be considered up to 1 August. To apply, please complete an application form, available from www.ucl.ac.uk/prospective-students/graduate-study/application-admissionApplications for short course attendance will be considered at any time.CILIPThis well established programme is accredited by CILIP (to May
2019).
				    Information Studies
				    
				Sorry, this Silva Document is not viewable.
				    Information Studies
				    
				The MRes is a  cross-domain qualification for librarians, archivists, publishers, digital humanities and other information and culture professionals who wish to develop their professional skills while pursuing a research project. It is also a research skills qualification for information and cultural professionals preparing for a higher research degree (MPhil or PhD).Students are offered a flexible but guided programme of study to develop their academic understanding, leadership, management, information technology and professional skills.The programme can be tailored to individual development needs and is often related to students’ current or future employment.The programme also offers the opportunity to develop research and academic writing skills, either towards a higher research degree (MPhil or PhD) or for career development.Students can choose from a wide range of taught courses, and will research and write a dissertation of 25,000 words. UCL:DIS is responsible for the administration of the programme, but students may take courses in other UCL departments by arrangement.Teaching, learning and assessmentStudents discuss and agree their selection of taught modules with their director of studies and / or research supervisor at the start of the programme.The taught programme is delivered through a combination of lectures, seminars, practical activities or lab sessions and group-work.  Coursework assessment is through a mixture of essays, reports, and practical assignments such as website design or the creation of indexing tools.  The exact balance will depend on the combination of options chosen.The research element is delivered through research skills sessions within the Department of Information Studies and participation in courses offered by the Graduate School.  Students are supported in their research project by an assigned supervisor.Assessment is by the final dissertation and viva.To obtain the degree of MRes, students are expected to complete:a Foundation Week, including an introduction to- the context of the information world within the UCL Department of Information- UCL resources- UCL Graduate School- self-management and transferable skillsFour taught courses chosen, in conjunction with their director of studies, from the range of postgraduate modules offered across the Department of Information Studies.These include modules in the areas of:* Management of services, resources or systems* information and communication systems and technologies* adult learning and professional development.and modules in the theory and practice of information and culture, chosen from one or more of the following fields:* archives and records management* digital humanities* information sources, organisation and retrieval* information services for specialist media or users, including services for children and schools* publishing* cultural heritagea research project dissertation of 25,000 words in an applied or theoretical area of information work.* Work on the research element of the degree includes engagement with research skills development, through a combination of sessions within the Department of Information Studies and provided by the Graduate School.Credit balance of MResTaught modules are worth 15 credits each.  The total taught element of the degree is therefore worth 60 credits, representing one-third of the degree.The research dissertation is worth 120 credits, representing two-thirds of the degree.The programme is delivered in collaboration with the Centre for the Advancement of Learning and Teaching at UCL.Why should I choose to study at UCL:DIS?UCL:DIS is the only academic department in the UK with programmes which span the areas of library and information studies, archives and records management, electronic publishing, information management and information science so we can offer unparalleled opportunities for cross-domain work to students on the MRes programme.Students will have the opportunity to work with other research students within DIS, contributing to and drawing on the research activity and seminars within the Department.MRes students are encouraged to make use of the UCL Graduate School resources and research community.When the School of Librarianship was established at UCL in 1919, it was the first of its kind in Britain; in another pioneering move, the study of Archive Administration was added in 1947. Since then the Department of Information Studies, as it now is, encompasses teaching and research across the full range of the information cycle, from knowledge creation and dissemination, through information structuring and management, to its retention and preservation.UCL:DIS is a leading centre for research in information science,knowledge organisation and management, digital information seeking, digital technologies for the humanities, electronic records and publishing, information literacy, preservation management and the history of the book, research and service evaluation, scholarly communication, user studies and web log analysis.UCL is one of the foremost teaching and research institutions in the United Kingdom. It was founded in 1826 to provide higher education for all who could benefit from it, regardless of religion, race or class, and is both the oldest and the largest of the various colleges and institutes that make up the University of London. UCL was the first to admit women to higher education on equal terms with men, and also pioneered the teaching of many subjects at university level. UCL currently has over 18,900 students, of whom approximately one third are graduate students, and 70 academic departments.As a metropolis, London hosts not only a large number of records management services, but also the broadest and finest grouping of historical archives in any city in the English-speaking world. A significant range of premier library and information institutions, including the British Library, are within easy reach. London is also at the centre of the global publishing industry.With its base in the heart of London, the UCL programmes are able to call on an impressive range of visiting speakers, as well as giving students opportunities for professional networking and structured field visits.UCL's central location also provides easy access to the many other social and cultural attractions which London can offer.What are the admission requirements?Candidates should normally have a first or second-class Honours degree. and a first professional qualification and several years of relevant work experience in an archives, records, library, publishing, museum or othercultural or information service. In exceptional circumstances, candidates with other qualifications and experience may be admitted.Applications from any country in the world are welcomed, but please note that we require an English language level of IELTS 7.0 (or equivalent) for this programme, and ideally would prefer 7.5.How much time commitment is required?Full-time study for the MRes requires a calendar year (September-September).The MRes is not offered in a distance learning mode, but part-time study (normally attending one or two days per week) is available for students who do not wish to attend on a full-time basis. Studying part-time, the MRes may be completed over two years.Classes are normally held on UCL's main site in Gower Street, London WC1; field visits and practical sessions may involve travel to other central London locations.Where would I live?Students must live within easy travelling distance of UCL.  The majority of our students live within London, but some do travel in from surrounding cities such as Brighton, Cambridge or Oxford.  Applicants should allow for the time and cost of travel, if considering living outside London.For those seeking accommodation in London, UCL offers a choice of halls of residence, student houses and intercollegiate halls. Information about applying for accommodation is available on the website of the UCL student residence office.How much does it cost?Details of course fees can be found on the UCL Registry website.You should note that these fees do not include accommodation, travel and living costs.Are grants, scholarships or loans available?UCL:DIS regrets that it is unable to offer financial support to students.Information about sources of funding for postgraduate students can be found on the UCL Department of Educational Liaisonwebsite.UCL does not offer any further grants, scholarships or loans to meet living or studying costs, although in some cases students who have begun a programme of study may be eligible to apply for UCL hardship funds if they meet unexpected financial difficulties during the year.Where can I get more information?Information about all the postgraduate programmes at UCL:DIS, and about methods of learning and assessment, can be found in the postgraduate prospectus.If having consulted these pages you have any additional questions, please email the Research Administrator ian.evans@ucl.ac.uk who will be happy to answer any queries you may have.How do I apply?Please visit the UCL applications website, which explains the procedures and supporting documents required, as well as links to the online or downloadable application form.In addition to the personal statement within the application pack, applicants are requested to supply a short outline proposal for their research interest. This should be between 600 - 1000 words and should indicate the proposed area of study, possible methodology and a short bibliography.When we assess your application we would like to learn:•	why you want to engage in research in the library, archive, publishing or other information sectors•	why you want to study within the library, archive, publishing and information disciplines at UCL•	what particularly attracts you to the MRes programme•	which of our taught modules you think will be of most use or interest to you and why•	what ideas you have at this stage about your research area•	how your academic and professional background meets the demands of this programme•	where you would like to go professionally and/or academically with your degreePlease check that you have provided all the information and documentation requested, including qualification transcripts, referee details and English language test scores if applicable.  Failure to include this information seriously holds up your chance of being considered for the MRes.What happens after I have applied?All applications are acknowledged by the College Admissions Office. Provided that your application is complete, it will then be considered by the Programme Director.Is there a deadline for applications?For entry in September each year the deadlines are:15th December (AHRC, UCL and British Council Scholarships)15th June (other applicants)
				    Information Studies
				    
				The Master's degree in Digital Humanities at UCL draws together teaching from a wide range of disciplines, to investigate the application of computational technologies to the arts, humanities, and cultural heritage.The MA/MSc in Digital
Humanities is a truly interdisciplinary programme and has strong teaching links with other Departments, Schools and Faculties in UCL: The programme also draws on facilities offered by:      as well as liaising closely with a variety of
world-class, London based libraries, archives, and museums within the
vicinity of UCL.The MA/MSc in Digital Humanities provides research-led teaching delivered by leading 
scholars in the field.The Master's in Digital Humanities is an innovative, exciting and groundbreaking programme while at the same time being demanding and challenging with rigorous academic standards.  Digital Humanities is an
important multidisciplinary field, undertaking research at the intersection of
digital technologies and humanities. It aims to produce applications and models
that make possible new kinds of research, both in the humanities disciplines
and in computer science and its allied technologies. It also studies the impact
of these techniques on cultural heritage, memory institutions, libraries,
archives and digital culture.We welcome students from a wide variety of backgrounds; some come to us straight from undergraduate degrees while others already have postgraduate qualifications or may have had many years of professional work experience. Most have a solid humanities background but many come to us from the social and computer sciences. All are welcome and the variety enriches the programme by its diversity. The important thing is a willingness to learn new things and to take on fresh challenges.Through our programme, students develop an advanced
understanding of digital resources and computational methods relevant to
research and practice in the humanities and cultural heritage sectors; these include XML, databases, internet technologies and image capture. They are
equipped with technical and design skills, such as text markup, web page design
and database construction.As well as discipline specific skills we have a strong commitment to developing research skills and the ability to critically evaluate material from a wide variety of sources. In addition we encourage students to challenge their assumptions and be open to new ideas and new ways of thinking. Communication skills are developed through class and seminar discussion with students taking an active role. Team working and networking are equally important and fostered by collaborative learning and the sharing of thoughts and ideas. Students benefit from
research-led teaching delivered by leading scholars in these fields and the
excellent range of facilities we have available, including the UCL Library Special Collections, UCL Museums and Collections and the UCLDH Multi-Modal Digitisation Suite. London is an international hub for the study of Digital Humanities with a wide range of research seminars and events at UCL and beyond. Our
students have an ideal base at UCL to take advantage of our collaboration
with London's many internationally important cultural heritage institutions,
including the British Museum and the British Library as well as a wide range of research institutes and the University of London's Schools of Advanced Study.   Master's students take modules to
the value of 180 credits: five core modules and three optional modules (15 credits each), a research dissertation (60
credits) and a work placement.A
Postgraduate Diploma (120 credits) is offered where students undertake 5 core modules and 3 optional
modules (15 credits each).A
Postgraduate Certificate (60 credits) is also offered where students undertake 4 modules by agreement with the Programme Director.Note that the technical core modules are all at entry level; for 
students that already have demonstrable competencies in these areas, it 
may be possible, subject to the agreement of the Programme Director, to 
substitute modules from other UCL departments.There are a wide range of taught optional modules to chose form; these are all subject to availability and timetabling.This is for coursework assignments, exams and the Workplacement Module which is a mandatory requirement for all full-time students.   All MA/MSc students undertake
an independent research project with the support of a supervisor which culminates in a dissertation (60 credits) of 10,000-12,000 words. The work placement and dissertation are important features of the MA/MSc Digital Humanities programme. One of the most exciting aspects of the MA/MSc in Digital Humanities 
is the student's work placement with a museum, library, gallery, archive, new 
media company, publishing house or other similar organisation.  All full-time students must complete a placement, usually in Term 3 or
during the early summer.The object of the placement is to introduce students to working practices and situations in digital humanities projects and 
contexts. The placement is the culmination of theoretical study and 
practical instruction. Following their placements, all students are required to write a 
short reflective piece focusing on the time that they spent with the host 
organisation, what they learned from being there and what they were able to 
bring to the placement.  Placements on our programme have been hosted by various companies and 
institutions as well as with UCLDH projects and the many UCL Museums and Collections; The British Museum, The Science Museum, The British 
Library, The Petrie Museum, School of Oriental and African Studies, UCL Web 
Development Office, UCL Art Museum, The Wellcome Trust, UCL Communications, Eastman 
Dental Hospital, UCL Library, Jisc, LanguageLab, The National Theatre, Ubiquity 
Press, British Film Institute, Museum of London, Islington Museum, Quip, Digital 
Artist, Centre for eResearch. The dissertation is a major piece of work (usually between 10,000 and 12,000 words in length) undertaken by the 
individual student under the guidance of a supervisor. UCLDH are pleased to announce the Stephen Robertson prize for the 
best dissertation in the UCL MA/MSc in Digital Humanities, sponsored 
by Microsoft. The first recipient of the £500 prize will be named from the 
finishing cohort of UCL Digital Humanities MA/MSc students in November 
2014, and the prize will continue for 5 years in the first instance. We 
thank Microsoft, and Stephen Robertson, for their generosity. More details are on the UCLDH blog. The topic needs to be one that can be covered adequately within the 
time and space allowed, and for which the Department can provide adequate 
supervision. Our staff have many and diverse research interests which can be used to support dissertation supervision. Continuing Professional Development and Short CoursesIn addition to the full Master's programme, the 
following short courses in Digital Humanities are also offered by the 
department. This is a very flexible programme for anyone looking to 
extend their skill set, particularly for CPD. Students registered for 
the Certificate must complete four modules from our DH core and options 
list as agreed with the Programme Director. The length of time taken 
depends on the student's circumstances (they may be working full-time or
 using this programme to complement other studies) and can range from a 
single term to a maximum of two years.     The course unit value is 60 credits or 24 ECTS which are transferable in the UK and EU. Application is through the UCL portal and the fees are pro-rata (by credits) depending on those for the full Master's programme.  Again this is a very flexible programme with students 
taking all five core modules from the full Master's programme and a 
further three from the optional modules list. Diploma students do not 
take the workplacement or dissertation modules. This can be completed 
full-time over nine months or by flexible study over two to five years. The course unit value is 120 credits or 48 ECTS which are transferable in the UK and EU.  Under the current UCL regulations for the Accreditation of 
Prior Learning (APL) credit transfer, a student who has already 
completed a PG Diploma and then applies for the Master’s programme will 
receive APL of 120 credits; this means that students holding a Diploma 
in DH would only need to complete the Dissertation to receive the full 
Master's degree.  Application is through the UCL portal and the fees are pro-rata (by credits) depending on those for the full Master's programme.  If you are currently enrolled at another institution it may
 be possible for you to study at our department to complement your work.
 Students usually come for one term and with this scheme,
 although it is not possible to receive a UCL qualification, it is 
usually possible to count credit taken here towards the degree in the 
home institution. This would need to be confirmed with the home 
institution first.            Many of the modules that are offered by the Department of Information Studies as part of the MA/MSc in Digital Humanities programme work as stand-alone short courses for those wishing to update their professional skills in a particular area. The modules are taught over one term, usually for one 
morning or one afternoon per week with 30 taught hours of lectures and 
practicals, followed by a coursework assessment or exam (which is 
optional for short course students). If the assessment is completed 
successfully, the module credit can count towards a future Master's 
degree. Many of these modules are CILIP accredited and so suitable for CPD for Library and Information professionals.          DH modules currently offered as Short Courses include: Digital Resources in the HumanitiesElectronic PublishingInternet TechnologiesIntroduction to Programming Legal and Social Aspects of Electronic PublishingSever Programming and Structured DataXMLAcceptance
 onto the module is by agreement by the tutor.  Many other modules from 
taught programmes offered by UCL Department of Information Studies (DIS)
 are available as short courses. Details about fees and how to apply are also available on that page.  
     Modules are usually taught over one term. Any exceptions will be clearly shown on final timetables.   Classes are held in the morning (10:00-13:00) 
or afternoon (14:00-17:00); generally for 10 weeks. These may also include field trips to outside institutions or resources. In addition, sufficient time must be set aside for preparing for classes, 
private study and for the completion of coursework assignments.  Term Dates: 2017-2018Timetable: Sample core module timetable.Students will also be able to see all their own modules on the UCL online teaching timetable, once they have completed module registration.Listings for the times and availability of optional modules are distributed to all students at Induction.  Academic: applicants
need to have a First or Upper Second-Class Honours degree in
a relevant Humanities or Computing discipline from a UK university,
or an  overseas qualification of an equivalent standard.  English language proficiency: the English Language Proficiency Requirement
 for all non-native English speakers is a minimum of an IELTS 7.0 with no less than 6.5 in each sub-set.UCL Pre-sessional English courses: these courses are recommended to introduce non-native students to the UK academic and social culture as well as to improve written and spoken English. However, attendance on these courses does NOT guarantee that you will be accepted onto the programme; applicants should ensure that they meet the required academic and language requirements before coming to UCL for a pre-sessional course. APL may be considered for advanced entry to a
 UCL taught programme where a student has already 
completed certified learning of a UCL
 programme e.g. a student who has completed a UCL PG Diploma and wishes to 
enrol on a UCL Masters. Please view details about UCL's Accredited Prior Learning Scheme.  Apply online via the UCL applications portal.  Before doing this you should check the UCL Applications guidelines for taught programmes. Note that we DO NOT accept applications from agencies and
 we will not communicate with an agent regarding your application. We 
expect all applicants to complete their applications themselves Deadlines: you may apply at any time and are encouraged to apply early; UCL Admissions will not accept applications after 1st August.   The programme
is suitable for students with an undergraduate degree in a wide variety
subjects. It allows students with a background in the humanities to acquire
necessarily skills in digital technologies, and enables those with a technical
background to become informed about scholarly methods in the humanities. The important thing is to be open to new challenges and willing to learn new ways of interpreting the world around us.   When we
assess your application we would like you to tell us   Together with essential academic requirements,
the personal statement is your opportunity to demonstrate your suitability for
the programme. Your application will be processed and you will be informed of the outcome or contacted if any additional information is needed. Contact with applicants is by email, so be sure that your account
details are current and correct.  Successful applicants will be sent further information
during the course of the summer, and you should also watch the Departmental
website. See also the UCL pages about Student Accommodation.Fees: 2017-2018 sessionMA/MSc               UK/EU students: £9,290Overseas students: £20,005pro-rata        pro-rata depending on the number of credits taken per year.  details are on the UCL Fee Schedule: Postgraduate Taught 2017-2018                 For details of funding opportunities, see UCL Scholarships and Funding.New UK Government Postgraduate Loans Scheme – 2016/17The UK government has confirmed its commitment to student
loans for 2016/17. Full details will be made available on www.gov.uk from January 2016. Loan applications,
eligibility, queries and decisions will be dealt with directly by the
government, not by UCL. However, currently the expectation is that the following key
details to be included in the loan scheme:The MA/MSc in Digital Humanities is a unique, innovative and groundbreaking programme which gives students the skills that they and 
employers tell us they need. Our students receive a unique blend of 
practical and theoretical skills that are in great demand. The work placement gives
 students the opportunity to put into practice what they have learnt 
together with gaining experience of the workplace in this fast moving 
environment.The cultural heritage sector is increasingly aware of the 
need to provide and manage digital content. The British Library, The 
National Archives, and many museums are investing heavily in web 
delivered content. Graduates of this programme will be well placed 
for further research or a career in this fast growing field. In addition, our graduates are also well placed to take up positions in project management roles and indeed any that focus on 
collaborative, innovative and creative thinking. Our graduates have found employment in organisations such as the British Museum, Oxford University, UNESCO; in roles as diverse as Web Editor, Chief Operating Officer, Senior Digital Marketing Executive. Several have also progressed to fully-funded research degrees; others have 
further developed their technical skills and have been recruited as 
programmers and developers for both academic and commercial projects.Recent career destinations include:Programme Director:Academic enquiries should go to the Programme Director, Julianne Nyhan Core Teaching staff: 
Julianne Nyhan  Admissions enquiries:Sarah Davenport Tel: +44 (20)7679 7204Email: s.davenport@ucl.ac.uk
				    Information Studies
				    
				The Library and Information Studies MA provides the ideal foundation for
 career progression in library or information work. The programme is 
recognised by the Chartered Institute of Library and Information 
Professionals (CILIP) as a qualification for entry into the profession.In May 2014 the programme was re-accredited by CILIP  for the maximum 5 years, until May 2019, under the new Professional Knowledge Skills Base scheme which forms the criteria against which all UK Library programmes are assessed. The Library and Information Studies
MA provides the ideal foundation for career progression in library or
information work. The one year programme is accredited by the professional
association (CILIP) and offers students a wide range of up-to-date learning opportunities
while helping to develop strong networks designed to enhance their
employability. This well established programme is accredited by CILIP (to May
2019). It brings together an outstanding team of researchers, 
teachers, students, practitioners and information industry leaders to 
understand, develop and shape the emerging information environment while
 elucidating and building on the historical developments that have 
created this environment.Students benefit from UCL's central London location, 
close to major libraries and repositories which house many important 
collections, including the British Library and the Senate House
 Library of the University of London.Cataloguing and classification Managing Collections Supporting Information Users Managing Information Organisations Using Technology in Information Organisations The Library and Information Professional In addition, you choose TWO from the following optional modules:Information LiteracyDatabase systems analysis and design Digital resources in the humanities Electronic publishing (available only to modular students)Historical bibliographyInformation GovernanceKnowledge representation and semantic technologiesManuscript studies Academic and Journals PublishingWe normally try to offer most of the options each year, but we cannot guarantee to offer any individual option. If you particularly want to do something please ask about it. Note: Because part-time students who complete the programme over two years attend on only one day their choice of options is restricted to those available on the part-time days (usually the most popular ones such as Historical Bibliography). Students who can arrange to come on two half days in the relevant term may of course choose other options if they wish.All full-time MA students, and any part time students who wish to, also do a 2-week work placement as part of the Professional Awareness module. For more information, see the 'Features' tab.All MA students undertake an independent research project which culminates in a dissertation of 10,000-12,000 words.The programme is delivered through a combination of lectures, seminars, computer laboratory and classroom practicals, with a strong emphasis on active learning and the acquisition of practical skills. Assessment is through a mixture of essays, reports, examination and practical assignments such as website design and the creation of indexing tools.The work placement is only open to students taking the MA/PG Dip in LIS G030
the Library and Information Professional module.The work placement gives students taking the MA/PG Dip in LIS experience of how
the techniques they have learned may be applied in practice.
Placements last for two weeks, and are undertaken at the beginning of
Term 3. We arrange placements individually for each student and do our best to
match the placement with their interests and experience.If you are considering hosting a student, please email Elizabeth Lomas: e.lomas@ucl.ac.uk.The dissertation is only undertaken by students taking the Masters in Library and Information Studies.The standard timetable starts at the beginning of October each year. Modules are usually taught over one term (term 1: October to
December; term 2: January to March), either 10.00 to 13.00 or 14.00 to 17.00.
Any exceptions will be clearly notified well in advance.In term time, classes are held in the morning (10:00-1:00) 
or afternoon (2:00-5:00). In addition, time should be allowed for 
private study and for completion of coursework. Classes are normally 
held on UCL's main site in Gower Street, London WC1; field visits and 
practical sessions may involve travel to other central London locations.Distance learning courses are not offered at this time at UCL.There is a two-week work placement at the start of Term 3. See 'Features' tab for more information.Students studying part-time over 2 years,
attend on Tuesdays in the first year of study, and on Monday in the second year
of study.Modular students' (3-5 years) attendance
will depend on which modules are selected per year/term.These serve only as a guide. Final timetables are made available at enrolment.
Download this year's timetable full-time students, or download this year's timetable for first year part-time students. Academic: A minimum of an upper second-class Bachelor's degree in a relevant discipline 
from a UK university or an overseas qualification of an equivalent 
standard. Work Experience: A year of full-time employment or its equivalent in a
 recognised library or information service.A
graduate traineeship is best (see the CILIP
website), but other kinds of work, for example, as
a library or information assistant, will often be as good. Casual work in a
library (such as shelving), or administrative support roles (such as
secretarial or financial administration posts) are not usually regarded as
appropriate. Ask if you are unsure whether your experience is enough.
 

We like to have a good mix of students from different sectors and with varied
experience, so even if your background is not conventional you may still be a
good candidate.  English language proficiency: The programme is taught in English. Applications from any 
country in the world are welcomed, provided the applicant has an 
acceptable command of the English language. Please view details about UCL’s English language proficiency requirement.APL may be considered for advanced entry to a
 UCL taught programme where a student has already 
completed certified learning of a UCL
 programme e.g. a student who has completed a UCL PG Diploma and wishes to 
enrol on a UCL Masters. Please view details about UCL's Accredited Prior Learning Scheme.Deadline: The initial deadline for applications is 13 January 2017. Applications received by 13 January 2017 will be 
considered for interview in early 2017 and the majority of the 
places on the programme will be filled following these interviews. Later
 applications will be considered 
until 28 July 2017, but at this stage 
fewer places are likely to be available and places cannot be guaranteed.Required documentation: Applicants should provide two references,
which will normally include an academic reference and a reference from your
current employer (i.e. your line manager or similar). A transcript of results
from your previous academic institution should also be included. It is usually
possible to obtain confirmation of your results, even if you graduated some
years ago.
 

Online applications will not be processed until they are complete i.e.
the necessary documents are all uploaded.
 
  The MA is a broad-based programme, and the skills that 
graduates learn are intended to apply to a wide range of jobs within the
 field of library and information studies. The general framework of the 
programme allows plenty of scope for students to follow their particular
 subject interests. When we assess your application we would like to learn: Processing applications

Online applications will not be processed until they are complete i.e.
the necessary documents are all uploaded. Your application will initially be
dealt with by the UCL Registry, and then assigned to the Department where it will
be checked. You will be told that your application has been received, and is being
processed. At this stage you may be asked to provide further information, or to
clarify any ambiguities; this doesn't mean that there is a problem with the
application. Most candidates will apply for either full-time or part-time
study. If you are not sure which you want, please mention this at interview. This is simply a matter of managing
numbers, and you don't prejudice your application by applying in this way.
 

Contact with applicants is usually via email, so be sure that your account
details are current and correct, and that you check the account regularly.
Please feel free to email us with any queries or problems you may have.
 
 Interviews

UCL:DIS has a policy of interviewing all suitably qualified applicants, and,
except in the case of overseas applicants, no-one is offered a place without
interview. Candidates will be invited for interview in the early part of the
Spring Term, and depending on numbers can go on right through to May. 

You will normally be seen by two members of staff, and the interview, which
lasts about 30 minutes, is relatively informal. You won't be expected to give a
presentation, or anything of that kind. Give yourself enough time to allow for
delays, and to find the Department.
 
 Letting you know the outcome

Because UCL is a popular university we usually
have more applicants than places, and unfortunately even well qualified
candidates may be disappointed. We seldom turn anyone down because there is
'something wrong' with the application, but usually simply because there is too
large a number of good potential students. We take into account a combination
of academic achievement, work experience, and performance at interview, with
none of these being more important than the others.  Successful candidates
will be sent further information during the course of the summer, and you
should also watch the Departmental website.  UCL offers different types of accommodation
to suit different students' requirements: there are halls of residence, student
houses and intercollegiate halls. Information about applying for accommodation
is available on the website of the UCL student residence office. Students are
also free to make their own accommodation arrangements, but are recommended to
live within easy travelling distance of UCL. If you are offered a place at DIS,
it will be important to arrange accommodation before you arrive in London.  Students often take
casual jobs at evenings or weekends to provide a small supplement to their
income. Full-time students often undertake casual paid employment at evenings
or weekends, but full-time study cannot be combined with a part-time job.

Successful candidates will be sent further information during the course of the
summer, and you should also watch the Departmental website.  International applicants that are offered a place at UCL:DIS, should
familiarise themselves with the information UCL provides to help international
students with visas, arriving, living and studying in London. The UK government has introduced student
loans from 2016/17. Full details are available on https://www.gov.uk/funding-for-postgraduate-study. Loan applications,
eligibility, queries and decisions will be dealt with directly by the
government, not by UCL. UCL (details on the UCL Scholarships and Funding webpages) but these are
likely only to be awarded to students of exceptional academic ability.Most students are self-financing, relying on savings or career development
loans. Part-time work (in libraries and elsewhere) is fairly readily available
in London, and most full-time students can find something that fits in with the
course.The MA LIS is fortunate to be one of the programmes that takes part in this scheme. Details are published on the Stationers' Foundation website annually, and eligible applicants are encouraged to apply by the MA LIS Programme Director.Available to a student enrolled or accepted in a graduate school of library and
information science.Prospective candidates should have knowledge of and interest in Jewish
studies, and demonstrate the potential, ability, and intention of pursuing a
career in Judaica librarianship.The Association of Jewish Libraries awards an annual scholarship to a
promising student with a history of participating in Judaic studies or
libraries, accepted into or attending an accredited graduate school of library
and information science. This scholarship is merit-based rather than
needs-based.AJL
membership is not required for eligibility.This
programme provides a professional qualification in Librarianship and Information Studies,
accredited by CILIP: the Chartered Institute of Library and Information
Professionals as a qualification for entry to the professions. Places of employment of recent
students include: As a vocational Masters, the MA LIS prepares students for
employment in the sector, and, in most cases, for promotion from their
pre-library school role as a library assistant to a qualified librarian role,
such as senior library assistant, assistant librarian, librarian or library
manager. Some students choose careers in information provision, such as
taxonomists and web designers. There are specialist employment agencies that
place students in both short-term and permanent positions, so if students do
not find their ideal post straight away, they usually find suitable employment
while continuing to seek their ideal post.Due to a change in the timetable for internal funding awards, we are able to extend our closing date for applications.  Applications for the Diploma or MA programmes may be considered until 28 July 2017, but at this stage fewer places are likely to be available and places cannot be guaranteed.Programme Director:  Core Teaching staff include: 
 A variety of other teaching staff from
across the Department will also deliver parts of the programme, depending on modules
chosen, and the proposed dissertation topic. Some modules include guest lecturers from other institutions and practitioner presentations. Admissions enquiries:Laura KeshavTel: +44 (20)7679 7204Email: l.keshav@ucl.ac.uk
				    Information Studies
				    
				This MA prepares you for a career in the challenging world of 
publishing. Taught by experts and practitioners and with master classes 
from industry leaders, the programme of study includes all the 
knowledge, skills and understanding you need to become a successful 
publisher, including a period of professional placement.From mass-market fiction to scholarly
journals, from editorial to marketing, from e-content management to contracts,
UCL’s MA in Publishing offers comprehensive preparation for entry to the
industryToday's publishing industry needs graduates with both a 
practical insight into how this complex industry functions and a range 
of transferable skills. This is what this course will give you. In 
particular, on successful completion you will be able to apply: Further information is available on how to apply. The Centre for Publishing MA aims to cover a wide spread of
 publishing disciplines, from fiction and trade to professional, 
academic, scholarly and educational. Teaching staff possess a range of 
book trade experience and networks of contacts across all fields in the 
UK and internationally. The aim of the course is to equip you with a clear 
understanding of how the publishing industry works and to give you the 
knowledge, confidence and abilities to move quickly in building a 
successful publishing career. In addition, leading publishers, literary agents, 
authors, legal experts, booksellers and electronic authorities visit the
 course to give lectures and presentations. Students benefit from 
masterclasses from industry leaders on current and controversial issues 
and field visits to retailers, publishers and libraries. Students
 benefit from UCL's central London location. The programme boasts an 
impressive range of visiting speakers and frequent opportunities for 
structured field visits.   Full-time 1 year; Part-time 2-5 yearsTerm One (September - December) Core modules Term Two (January - March) Optional modules, with 
the exception of INSTG068.  NOTE that optional modules will only run if 
 there is a quorate amount of sign-ups, and that UCL reserves the right 
to withdraw any option from year to year.  Check on application if there
 is a particular module you are interested in taking.  Term Three (May - June)  Full-time study for the MA requires a calendar year 
(September-September), with the summer months being occupied by work on 
the MA dissertation. In term time, classes are 
held in the morning (10:00-1:00) or afternoon (2:00-5:00). In addition, 
time should be allowed for private study and for completion of 
coursework. Classes are normally held on UCL's main site in Gower 
Street, London WC1; field visits and practical sessions may involve 
travel to other central London locations. Academic: A minimum of a second-class Bachelor's degree in a relevant discipline from a UK university or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard. Outstanding candidates will exceptionally be considered
if they can offer significant relevant industry experience. For an informal discussion and for advice, please contact Nick Canty.English language proficiency: A very high level of fluency is vital, and international students should
 be aware that this is a demanding course, focussing on publishing in 
the English-speaking world, as it operates within global contexts.  To 
cope with the challenges the course provides, your English must be of an
 excellent standard, and you must understand the need for accuracy and 
good writing style that the publishing industry expects. Please view details about UCL’s English language proficiency requirement.Work experience: Experience in publishing is not regarded as a pre-requisite - any work 
experience that demonstrates good people skills, written communication 
skills, design work, or business sense is useful.  APL may be considered for advanced entry to a
 UCL taught programme where a student has already 
completed certified learning of a UCL
 programme e.g. a student who has completed a UCL PG Diploma and wishes to 
enrol on a UCL Masters. Please view details about UCL's Accredited Prior Learning Scheme.  You may choose to apply online or download application materials; for details visit www.ucl.ac.uk/gradappsDeadlines: The last day of May each year, for entry in the same year. Required documentation: Applicants should
provide two references, of which at least one should be an academic reference.  A transcript of results
from your previous academic institution should also be included. It is usually
possible to obtain confirmation of your results, even if you graduated some
years ago.
 

Online applications will not usually be processed until they are complete i.e.
the necessary documents are all uploaded.
 
   When we assess your application we would like to learn:
Your personal statement should tell us something about your
 ambitions, and what you like to read.  Don't just tell us you love 
reading -- everyone says that! -- but be specific.  What genres?  What 
bestsellers?  We are also looking for people who are genuinely 
interested in the industry  - there are plenty of free newsfeeds out 
there, so show us what you follow, and the trends and news items in 
publishing that you are aware of.  You don't need to know exactly what 
company you want to work for, or what job role - but we need to see you 
are keen to learn about the whole process of publishing, and open to 
engaging with challenging individual and group work tasks. Our professional contacts and contexts are crucial parts of
 the course - and your future working environments.  We are looking for 
people we feel can work professionally, often under pressure, and 
represent themselves - and UCL - in a positive light.  We are very proud
 of our graduates, who have helped build the course's reputation for 
excellence, and who now work for publishers all over the world, in big 
companies, in small ones - and in ones they have started themselves.Being a part of the UCL MA in Publishing is to be part of a supportive, 
dynamic, creative, and full programme - if this sounds appealing to you,
 then we look forward to receiving your application! Processing
applications: Your
application will initially be dealt with by the UCL Graduate Admissions Office, and then assigned to the Department where it will be checked. You will be told that your papers
have been received, and are being considered. At this stage you may be asked to
provide further information, or to clarify any ambiguities; this doesn't mean
that there is a problem with the application. Contact with
applicants is usually via email, so be sure that your account details are
current and correct, and that you check the account regularly. Please feel free
to email us with any queries or problems you may have. Interviews: We select students for places on the MA after carefully reviewing the 
application form, and then inviting for interview those that we feel 
would best fit the course demands.  Skype or email interviews are 
arranged for overseas students. The
interview, which lasts about 30 minutes, is relatively informal. You won't be
expected to give a presentation, or anything of that kind.  Letting
you know the outcome: We consider
applications as they are received, and make decisions about offers of places
accordingly until places are filled. Successful
candidates will be sent further information during the course of the summer,
and you should also watch the Departmental website. UCL offers different types of accommodation to suit
different students' requirements: there are halls of residence, student houses
and intercollegiate halls. Information about applying for accommodation is
available on the website of the UCL student residence office. Students are also
free to make their own accommodation arrangements, but are recommended to live
within easy travelling distance of UCL. If you are offered a place at DIS, it
will be important to arrange accommodation before you arrive in London.  Under UK government regulations, international students
are allowed to undertake a limited amount of paid employment to help meet the
costs of their studies, and students often take casual jobs at evenings or
weekends to provide a small supplement to their income. Full-time students
often undertake casual paid employment at evenings or weekends, but full-time
study cannot be combined with a part-time job.  International applicants that are offered a place at
UCL:DIS, should familiarize themselves with the information UCL provides to
help international
students with arriving, living and studying in London  The UK government has confirmed its commitment to student
loans for 2016/17. Full details will be made available on www.gov.uk from January 2016. Loan applications,
eligibility, queries and decisions will be dealt with directly by the
government, not by UCL. However, currently the expectation is that the following key
details to be included in the loan scheme:We have a number of scholarships available for offer 
holders for this coming year (Start date Sept 2015). Please note these 
are all only available to full time Home and EU students, and students 
can only apply to ONE scheme. Details of awards suitable for 
international students, and further opportunities for home and EU 
students, can be found on the UCL Scholarships and Funding pages. A UCL Wiley Scholarship has been established by the publishers John
Wiley and Sons Ltd to be awarded to an outstanding MA in Publishing
student at the UCL Centre for Publishing. The successful candidate will be selected through an interview 
process
by Wiley and UCL representatives. The UCL Wiley Scholarship will cover 
full tuition fees for the one year  course and an internship at Wiley in
 the UK.  To
Apply:For further information please contact:  
  Dr Samantha Rayner, Programme Director 
  Email: s.rayner@ucl.ac.uk
  Telephone +44 (0)20-7679-2473UCL Centre for Publishing, Department of Information Studies, University College London, Gower Street, London WC1E 6BT  Faber and Faber and UCL awards a scholarship in
memory of the late David Tebbutt, Finance Director of Faber and Faber
from 2002 until his untimely death in September 2011.  The UCL David Tebbutt
Scholarship is awarded annually to fully fund a place on the MA in Publishing programme, and is open to UK and EU applicants.  The scholarship is
funded by the David Tebbutt Trust, which is jointly administered by
Faber and Faber and the Tebbutt family. The principal aim of the
Trust is to further the education of those wishing to pursue a career
in the publishing, writing and information industries, and related
fields of activity. As well as funding a full year's fees, the
scholarship will also carry a guaranteed work placement with Faber
and Faber.  To
Apply:  Please contact Dr
Samantha Rayner for more details: s.rayner@ucl.ac.uk  Note:  Remember, only ONE of the 
scholarships can be applied for.  This is mainly because the companies 
involved are interested in supporting students genuinely committed to 
them and the sector of publishing they represent -not just people who 
are trying to get funding!  Scholarships are very competitive, and all 
offer holders should have alternative arrangements in place to cover 
funding should they be unsuccessful in the scholarship process. Application deadline has been extended to Thursday 30 April.Below and in the link pasted below are details on the UCL
Studentship web page of UCL’s Postgraduate Support Scheme. http://www.ucl.ac.uk/prospective-students/scholarships/graduate/UK-EU-Master/uclalumniandfriendsPlease note the highlighted bullet point below, as the
eligibility criteria may exclude you if you started your undergraduate degree
before September 2012 (see below).The Postgraduate
Support Scheme (PSS), at UCL, offers approximately 340 awards of £10,000 each
to prospective postgraduate taught students. The aim of the
scheme is to encourage students from under-represented groups to embark on a
postgraduate qualification and is funded jointly by the Higher Education
Funding Council for England (HEFCE) and UCL. This is a one-off
opportunity for those applying to study a postgraduate taught programme
starting in September 2015 only. To be eligible to apply for an award
candidates must meet all the eligibility criteria. The PSS is a discretionary
fund that is expected to generate high demand, so there is no guarantee of
funding upon application.Eligibility
criteriaTo be considered
for an award, candidates must:At UCL
priority will be given to students from the following groups: Value and
durationThese awards will
be offered in the form of tuition fee bursaries, with any balance paid as
maintenance funding. The aim of the course is to equip you with a clear understanding of how modern
      publishing works and to give you the knowledge, confidence and abilities
  to move quickly in building a successful publishing career. At the end of the programme you will be a professional 
publisher ready to launch your career with a qualification from a 
university that the industry recognises and values. UCL's MA in Publishing aims to help train leaders in 
the industry. We employ a rigorous applications process to ensure we 
recruit very best potential publishers, and professional behaviours is at
 the core fo everything we do. This is an intensive course, which 
provide access to the publishing industry throughout its duration; we 
work with each student to equip them with the best support for their 
professional development. As a result, our graduates are sought after 
recruits. Recent job successes have been in Bloomsbury Digital, Sage, 
Penguin and David Higham Associates.Programme Director:   Core Teaching staff include: 
  In addition, leading publishers, literary agents, authors, legal experts,
    booksellers and electronic authorities visit the course to give lectures
    and presentations.
  There are ‘master classes’ from industry leaders on current and
controversial issues and field visits to retailers, publishers and libraries. Admissions enquiries: Ian Evans  Tel: +44 (20)7679 7204 Email: ian.evans@ucl.ac.uk
				    Information Studies
				    
				 The MSc in Information Science is an ideal 
career development programme for librarians, archivists and other 
information professionals who wish to update their skills and experience
 in the use of information technology, the internet and digital media, 
or for those from a computer-oriented background who wish to specialise 
in information fields.The
programme includes both practical and theoretical work through which students
develop a deeper understanding of not just the technologies themselves but also
the implications of applying and managing these technologies in varied
information environments. The wide range of optional courses allow students to
tailor the programme to fit their individual career specialism and needs.The programme  prepares students for management roles in the information industries
with an emphasis on technology: for example information systems manager,
systems librarian, web manager, information architect, knowledge manager, data
manager, or indeed any information management role. Our graduates find work all
over the world with electronic systems for managing, retrieving, distributing
and archiving vast quantities of information.Our students come from a
very wide range of backgrounds, and a typical student is very hard to define.
Many are already working in libraries, records centres, archives or other
information units, and wish to deepen their knowledge of technical issues,
undertake professional development, or gain a formal qualification to enhance
their career prospects. Others increasingly come from a more computing-oriented
background and want to specialise in the information fields and develop their
information and management skills. Others may already be experts in niche areas
but are looking to gain a broader range of expertise.As a result we have a
very diverse student body, with ages ranging from the early 20s to mid 50s and
a good mixture of UK, EU and overseas students. One of the tenets of the
programme is that students should learn from each other as well as from the
faculty, and benefit greatly from sharing their ideas and experience with each
other.The programme is suitable
for:Reputation: UCL Information Studies combines the best of 
traditional library and archive studies with the latest developments in 
internet technologies and electronic communication and publishing.Research: It brings together an outstanding team of researchers, 
teachers, students, practitioners and information industry leaders to 
help you understand, develop and shape the emerging information 
environment while elucidating and building on the historical 
developments that have created this environment.Location: Students benefit from UCL's central London location, 
close to many major libraries and repositories and information centres, 
including the British Library and many specialist collections, giving 
ready access to an underpassed range of materials. MSc/Dip students must
take the following core modules:Systems
ManagementInternet
TechnologiesDatabase
Systems Analysis and DesignIntroduction
to Programming and ScriptingFundamentals of Information ScienceStudents select three
optional modules. Common choices include: Server
Technologies and Programming DataXMLDigital
Resources in the HumanitiesLegal
and Social Aspects of Electronic PublishingManaging Information OrganisationsElectronic
PublishingEncoded
Archival Description and Digitisation of ArchivesIndividual
Approved StudyIntroduction
to DigitisationInformation GovernanceKnowledge
Representation and Semantic Technologies Introduction to Digital CurationThis list is indicative only. In principle any DIS module may be taken if appropriate.  All MSc students undertake an independent research 
project on a specific aspect of information technology and its 
application, which culminates in a dissertation of 10,000-12,000 words. For more information, view the 'Features' tab. The programme is delivered through a combination of 
lectures, tutorials, seminars, computer laboratory practicals and classroom 
practicals, with a strong emphasis on informal teaching and the 
acquisition of practical skills. Assessment is through a mixture of 
essays, reports, examination, peer assessment and practical projects such as website 
design and data modeling.In addition, MSc students
will undertake their own research, guided by an expert tutor, into a specific
aspect of information technology and its application, which culminates in a
dissertation of 12,000-15,000 words. This dissertation will
form an integral part of the learning experience as well as making a major
contribution to the collective research effort of DIS. The best dissertations
may form the basis for a publication in a scholarly journal or a presentation
at an academic conference. Students with connections to a sponsoring
organisation (particularly modular students on day release) often undertake
projects of direct relevance and benefit to their sponsoring organisation or
place of work.A Postgraduate Certificate (60 credits, full-time 15 weeks 
or flexible study over a period of up to two years) is offered. The PG 
Certificate comprises four taught modules selected by the student in 
consultation with the Programme Director, and is a shorter programme of 
study, which is not accredited by CILIP 
and not recognised as a full professional qualification. It is designed 
for those who wish to gain some basic knowledge of information science, but are not (currently) intending to take it up as a 
professional career.Depending on the modules chosen, the Certificate may be 
completed in approximately a half year of full-time study (late 
September-late January or early January-early June), or may be taken 
more gradually over nine months (late September-early June).  Applicants to the PG Cert apply in the normal way: you may 
choose to apply online or download application materials; for details 
visit www.ucl.ac.uk/gradappsIn term time, mostly classes are held in the morning (10:00-1:00) or afternoon 
(2:00-5:00). In addition, time should be allowed for private study and 
for completion of coursework. Classes are normally held on UCL's main 
site in Gower Street, London WC1; field visits and practical sessions 
may involve travel to other central London locations.Full-time
 study for the MSc requires a calendar year (September-September), with 
the summer months being occupied by work on the MSc dissertation.Modular/flexible study (attending one or two days per week) is available for the MSc/PG Dip/PG Cert in Information Science. Modular students' attendance
will depend on which modules are selected per year/term and are agreed on an annual basis. Modular students registered for the MSc and the PG Diploma can complete their studies flexibly over a period of 2-5 years; students registered for the PG Certificate can complete over a period of 15 weeks min to 2 years max.The timetable provided serves only as a guide. Final timetables are made available at enrolment.Download a sample timetable.Academic: The programme requires a minimum of a second-class Bachelor's degree 
from a UK university or an overseas qualification of an equivalent 
standard. An appropriate professional qualification is preferred. 
Applicants with  relevant experience in an information or computing 
discipline may also be considered.English language proficiency: The English Language Proficiency Requirement for all non-native English speakers is a minimum of an IELTS 7.0 with no less than 6.5 in each sub-set.APL may be considered for advanced entry to a
 UCL taught programme where a student has already 
completed certified learning of a UCL
 programme e.g. a student who has completed a UCL PG Diploma and wishes to 
enrol on a UCL Masters. Please view details about UCL's Accredited Prior Learning Scheme. Students are advised to apply as early as possible due 
to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding 
(particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application 
deadlines. Deadlines: Applications for the Diploma or MSc programmes must
 be submitted by 1 July in the year of entry, although late 
applications will be considered up to UCL's general application deadline
 in early August. Selected candidates will be invited to an informal interview, 
usually held between March and July.Required documentation: Applicants should
provide two references, of which at least one should be an academic reference.  A transcript of results
from your previous academic institution should also be included. It is usually
possible to obtain confirmation of your results, even if you graduated some
years ago.
 

Online applications will not usually be processed until they are complete i.e.
the necessary documents are all uploaded.
 
  The programme is particularly suitable for those who 
wish to develop their computer-related management skills with a view to 
improving their employment opportunities in all areas of information 
management, library, records and archives work.  It will also appeal to 
students interested in applying and managing technology effectively 
within any information environment. When we assess your application we would like to learn:Processing
applications: Your
application will initially be dealt with by the UCL Registry, and then assigned to the Department where it will be checked. You will be told that your application has been received, and is being processed. At this stage you may be asked to
provide further information, or to clarify any ambiguities; this doesn't mean
that there is a problem with the application.Contact with
applicants is usually via email, so be sure that your account details are
current and correct, and that you check the account regularly. Please feel free
to email us with any queries or problems you may have.Interviews: Selected candidates will be invited for an informal interview, either in person or
via Skype, which lasts about 30 minutes. You won't be
expected to give a presentation, or anything of that kind. Letting
you know the outcome: We consider
applications as they are received, and make decisions about offers of places
accordingly until places are filled.Successful
candidates will be sent further information during the course of the summer,
and you should also watch the Departmental website.UCL offers different types of accommodation to suit
different students' requirements: there are halls of residence, student houses
and intercollegiate halls. Information about applying for accommodation is
available on the website of the UCL student residence office. Students are also
free to make their own accommodation arrangements, but are recommended to live
within easy travelling distance of UCL. If you are offered a place at DIS, it
will be important to arrange accommodation before you arrive in London. Under UK government regulations, international students
are allowed to undertake a limited amount of paid employment to help meet the
costs of their studies, and students often take casual jobs at evenings or
weekends to provide a small supplement to their income. Full-time students
often undertake casual paid employment at evenings or weekends, but full-time
study cannot be combined with a part-time job. International applicants that are offered a place at
UCL:DIS, should familiarize themselves with the information UCL provides to
help international
students with arriving, living and studying in London.UCL:DIS have a small number of scholarships (details on the Funding Options for Graduate Students webpages) but these are likely only to be awarded to students of exceptional academic ability.Most students are
self-financing, relying on savings or career development loans. Part-time work
(in libraries and elsewhere) is fairly readily available in London, and most
full-time students can find something that fits in with the course.The UK government has confirmed its commitment to student
loans for 2016/17. Full details will be made available on www.gov.uk from January 2016. Loan applications,
eligibility, queries and decisions will be dealt with directly by the
government, not by UCL. However, currently the expectation is that the following key
details to be included in the loan scheme: The MSc in Information Science prepares students for 
management roles in the information industries with an emphasis on 
technology: for example; information systems manager, systems librarian,
 web manager, information architect, knowledge manager, data manager, or
 indeed any information management role. Our graduates find work all 
over the world with electronic systems for managing, retrieving, 
distributing and archiving vast quantities of information. The programme
 is recognised and accredited by CILIP, the Chartered Institute of 
Library and Information Professionals, for professional qualifications 
purposes. This programme challenges students to think more 
deeply about the implications of using information technology of all 
kinds in the workplace, and to consider better ways of designing, 
specifying, implementing and managing systems in order to promote 
organisational success. Understanding these issues and having the skills
 to develop and manage practical solutions equips our students to 
succeed individually and to help their organisations succeed. Our 
students achieve a high employability rate on graduating, and rise in 
organisations as their skills are recognised. Many past students now 
occupy senior positions in the information world in government, 
commerce, industry and academia.Programme Director:  Core Teaching staff include: 
 A variety of other teaching staff from
across the profession will also teach on the programme, depending on modules
chosen, and the proposed dissertation topic.  Admissions enquiries:Sarah DavenportTel: +44 (20)7679 7204Email: s.davenport@ucl.ac.uk
				    Information Studies
				    
				 We largely teach at the postgraduate level and offer probably the widest range of information disciplines in the country. Covering
 the fields of Librarianship, Information Science, Archives, Records 
Management, Digital Humanities and Publishing, we not only offer a wide 
range of fields and provide wide professional choice but also, via 
options etc, the important context in which to study the individual 
information discipline of your choice. Postgraduate teaching at DIS is delivered through a range of taught programmes:Please
 note that we DO NOT accept applications from agencies on any of our 
programmes and we will not communicate with an agent regarding your 
application. We expect all applicants to complete their applications 
themselves.Programme content is organized into
 modules, each of these consisting of 30 contact hours, and completed in
 a single term. Each programme consists of a set of compulsory modules, 
plus options. The modular structure allows you to study on a part-time, 
or modular, basis, part-time students usually taking two modules per 
term, as opposed to the full-time four modules per term. A number of 
modules are available on more than one programme, and in these cases, 
students from the different programmes may be taught together.A
 wide range of teaching and learning methods are employed, including 
formal lectures, seminars, small group work, computer lab practicals and
 classroom practicals. Overall there is a strong emphasis on informal 
teaching and the acquisition of practical skills. Assessment styles 
mirror this diversity with a mixture of essays, reports, and practical 
assignments such as website design and the creation of indexing tools.The
 Department is fortunate to have a number of visiting lecturers and 
speakers who provide contact with the wider worlds of research and 
professional practice. We are also able to exploit the rich collections 
to be found in the surrounding area, some of which are used directly in 
teaching and learning.
				    Information Studies
				    
				Publishing Skills is designed to give students exposure to key skills areas for publishing, including a working knowledge of the capabilities and uses for core software packages. Classes introduce design concepts across editorial, production and marketing, whilst significant lab time will allow you to explore the available learning materials and practice their creative application.The module will include technical training and self-directed learning in InDesign, Nielsen Bookscan and other relevant publishing software packages. Students will learn about the importance of metadata and challenges in the online world. In addition students will learn about copyediting, and proofreading (including page layout and design).Masterclasses from expert guest speakers will supplement foundational knowledge and introduce additional skills areas or types of software used by publishers.Learning Outcomes:Assessment: A portfolio of skills evidence, and the submission of a reflective report on your learning and development across the module of no more than 3000 words.Terms 1 and 2: Compulsory for students on the MA in Publishing programme.Prerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this module.Module leader: Jon NewburyFurther information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				The
 module will discuss the theories and concepts associated with the 
publishing function and its associated activities including reading, 
writing, textual criticism and editing, and the dissemination and 
circulation of books and information. The interaction of the book with 
society will be a key theme of the module. ObjectivesModule Leader: Dr Daniel Boswell 
				    Information Studies
				    
				
				    Information Studies
				    
				 This information is useful for all undergraduate students taking DIS
modules (modules which have a code starting with INST)We hope that you will enjoy studying with us. Please contact the DIS Undregraduate Officer (nicola.alexander@ucl.ac.uk) if you have any queries.Your first point of contact for all queries relating to
DIS modules is the DIS Undergraduate Officer, Nicola Alexander (nicola.alexander@ucl.ac.uk) – please do NOT email the
module tutor.Please use the Moodle discussion forums for any queries
relating to course content and teaching (see Moodle section below).[back to contents]UCL email is the normal means of communication between staff and students.
You should familiarize yourself with its use and check your UCL mailbox
regularly. Your email address is your-userid@ucl.ac.uk. You will
also be allocated an alias (more like your real name). DIS will send all emails to your UCL address. If
you wish, you can arrange to have email forwarded automatically to a different
address, but Information Systems do not recommend this. It is your
responsibility to ensure that you receive emails sent to your UCL
address. Keeping in touch is a two-way process: we will endeavour to answer your
emails as quickly as we can, but at certain times of the year (e.g. start of
the academic year, exams period), the volume of emails we receive will be very
high and it may take a little longer. Occasionally, we will have to contact you – usually because there is an
urgent query regarding coursework submission or some other emergency – and we
would appreciate it if you could reply as soon as possible.  Please
don’t hesitate to get in touch if you have any questions or are unsure about
what you need to do – don’t leave it too late! [back to contents]It is compulsory to attend all taught sessions (lectures, seminars,
practical sessions). Attendance will be monitored.It is very important that you attend lectures and computer practicals – all
the DIS courses are technical ones and it is important that you practise in the
practical sessions the new material covered in that week’s lecture.If you are unable to attend due to
illness etc. – please email the DIS Undergraduate Officer (nicola.alexander@ucl.ac.uk) as soon as possible – preferably before the lecture/practical to let her
know that you are unable to attend and give the reason. [back to contents]Your attention is drawn to the UCL policy on plagiarism. DIS applies the UCL policy very strictly and the
consequences for students can be extremely serious. [back to contents]Moodle is the UCL Virtual Learning Environment (VLE). Each
undergraduate DIS course has two Moodle pages: The module information page
contains useful information about the module (e.g. place, dates and times of
the taught sessions), learning resources (e.g. lectures notes and exercises)
and a discussion forum through which students can interact with each other and
with the module tutor. Please use the discussion forums to post any queries relating to course content
and teaching. Students are expected to visit the course information page on a
regular basis during the term that the module is taught. The coursework submission page
is used to upload your coursework and you will receive your provisional mark
and feedback via that page.[back to contents]You must submit by the
specified deadline – there are penalties for late submission (see below).
Please check the coursework instructions carefully and submit your coursework
in the specified file format. Dates for submission of coursework are
included with the coursework instructions themselves. These deadlines will be
applied rigidly.Please contact your Home Department for information on how to apply for a coursework extension. Please check the Academic manual for details of the penalties that will be applied if you submit your coursework late.Please check the coursework instructions carefully - if word length is specified then the relevant penalties will be applied if you exceed this. Full details in the Academic Manual.DIS will not include bibliographies,
references, tables, pictures or graphs as part of the upper word limit for
coursework submissions, unless this has been explicitly stated in the
coursework submission instructions.Feedback and provisional marks are made
available to students via Moodle. You will be sent an email when these are
available to view.It is DIS departmental policy for all
coursework to include an explicit deadline by which it will be marked and
feedback given to students. UCL aspires for the norm for return of coursework
to be approximately four weeks after the submission deadline. But the length of
period between particular submission and return deadlines may vary from this to
a degree because of such factors as the complexity of the assignment, the depth
of feedback required, the number of students taking the module, whether or not
students have already received feedback for other assignments within the
module, and the proximity to other known departmental, UCL and professional
deadlines.[back to contents]
Part of the feedback on a piece of assessed coursework will generally be a
provisional mark. 40% or more is a pass in any piece of coursework, and below
40% is a fail. This page attempts to summarise in very general terms the “usual
meaning” of each mark when the course concerned is taught by DIS. However,
obviously not all the criteria mentioned are applicable to every piece of
coursework. If you need further clarification on what you need to do to obtain
a particular mark for a particular piece of coursework, or why you have been
awarded a particular mark, you should seek advice from the particular lecturer
concerned.  70% OR ABOVE — Work of this standard across a
whole degree programme would result in the award of a 1st class degree.
An excellent piece of work, showing a very high degree of mastery of the
subject matter, with a highly developed and mature ability to analyse,
synthesise and/or apply knowledge, concepts and/or techniques. All objectives
of the set work are covered, and work is free of all but very minor errors with
a high level of technical competence. Where appropriate, there is evidence of
critical reflection, and of ability to tackle questions and issues not
previously encountered. Ideas are expressed clearly.  60% - 69% — Work of this standard across a
whole degree programme would result in the award of a 2-1 class degree.
A good piece of work, showing a sound and thorough grasp of the subject matter,
though possibly lacking in the breath and depth required for an A grade. Where
appropriate, there is a good attempt at analysis, synthesis and application of
knowledge and concepts, but this may be more limited in scope than that
required for an A grade. Most objectives of the work set are covered. Work is
generally technically competent, but there may be a few gaps leading to some
errors. Where appropriate, there is some evidence of critical reflection, and
the ability to make a reasonable attempt at tackling questions and issues not
previously encountered. Ideas are expressed with clarity, with some minor
exceptions.  50% - 59% — Work of this standard across a
whole degree programme would result in the award of a 2-2 class degree.
A fair piece of work, showing a grasp of major elements of the subject matter
but possibly with some gaps or areas of confusion. Only the basic requirements
of the work set are covered. The attempt at analysis, synthesis and application
of knowledge is superficial, with a heavy reliance on course materials. Work
may contain some errors, and technical competence is at a routine level only.
Evidence of ability to tackle questions not previously encountered is limited.
There is little critical reflection. Some confusion and immaturity in expression
of ideas.  40% - 49% — Work of this standard across a
whole degree programme would result in the award of a 3rd class degree.
A poor piece of work, showing some familiarity with the subject matter, but
with major gaps and serious misconceptions. Only some of the basic requirements
of the work set are achieved. There is little or no attempt at appropriate
analysis, synthesis or application of knowledge, and a low level of technical
competence, with many errors. There is apparent difficulty in beginning to
address questions and issues not previously encountered. There is no evidence
of ability to reflect critically on an argument or viewpoint. Ideas are poorly
expressed and structured.  39% OR BELOW — Work of this standard across a
whole degree programme would not result in the award of a degree.
The student has failed to engage seriously with the subject matter. The student
has found it impossible to address questions not previously encountered. The
level of understanding, expression and structure is very inadequate.[back to contents]
				    Information Studies
				    
				The aims of this module are to introduce students to some of the basic concepts of imperative and object-oriented computer programming, and to develop programming skills and related problem-solving skills using a subset of the Java programming language.Learning outcomes: On successful completion of this module students will be able to design, write, debug and test short (i.e. 1 to 2 page) Java programs and program modules containing a combination of some or all the following features:In addition, students will be able to understand, modify and extend longer (10 - 20 page) Java programs containing the above asortment of features.Assessment: Assessment is by a series of programming exercisesCompulsory for: BSc Information Management for BusinessOptional for: Arts and Sciences BASc (Science and Engineering Pathway)Prerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this module, but students should be mathematically competentTaught by: Karen StepanyanFurther information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				This module provides an introduction to information systems for 1st year students on the BSc Information Management for Business degree. Students from other years taking this module as an ancillary option will be accepted, as appropriate.Information systems are an integral part of any modern organisation and, increasingly, computer systems are used to support every aspect of an organisation's functions and activities. Whilst innovative use of technologies can provide significant benefits, information systems will only deliver value where they are deployed to meet the goals of the organisation. The emphasis of the module is on methods for analysing, specifying and designing information systems within a framework which takes a holistic approach to the introduction of change and in which user requirements are considered fundamental.The aims of this course are to:Learning outcomes: Students will understand the notion of abstraction and other methods for understanding and representing aspects of existing and proposed systems. Students will know how to apply methods and construct models relevant to the development of information systems.Assessment: Assessment by coursework (40%) and unseen examination (60%)Compulsory for: BSc Information Management for BusinessOptional for: BSc Information Management for BusinessPrerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this moduleTaught by: Oliver Duke-WilliamsFurther information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				This module is a direct continuation of INST1002 Programming 1. Programming 1 introduced some of the basic concepts of imperative and object-oriented computer programming, and developed programming skills and related problem-solving skills using a subset of the Java programming language. The Programming 2 module expands this subset and uses it to introduce the more complex concepts required to perform more detailed (and more interesting!) programming tasks using the Java language.Learning outcomes: On successful completion of this module students will be able to design, write, debug and test medium size (i.e. 3 to 4 page) Java programs, primarily for the creation and implementation of Graphical User Interface (GUI) and File I/O routines, containing a combination of some or all the following features:Assessment: Assessment is by coursework (a practical programming exercise or series of exercises) and an unseen examinationCompulsory for: BSc Information Management for BusinessOptional for: Arts and Sciences BASc (Sciences and Engineering Pathway)Prerequisites: INST1002: Programming 1Taught by: Kosmas KosmopoulosFurther information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				The purpose of this module is to provide an overview of the theory andpractice of database systems: data and database analysis, design, useand management, with particular emphasis on relational systems.Inter alia the module will cover: data investigation, representation andorganisation; metadata; conceptual modelling; entity-relationshipmodelling; normalization of data; relational databases and relationalalgebra; query languages; SQL; database implementation; databasemanagement systems; database administration; security and performanceissues; data on the web and related issues.Learning outcomes: By the end of the module, students will beable to analyse, specify, design and implement a data management system.They will have a thorough grasp of the theory and practice ofrelational database systems, and how this relates to the general needsof an organisationAssessment: Assessment is by coursework (20%) and an unseen written examination (80%)Compulsory for: BSc Information Management for BusinessOptional for: Arts and Sciences BASc (Sciences and Engineering Pathway)Prerequisites: Year 1 of the BSc Information Management or BSc Information Management for Business programmesTaught by: Kosmas-Othon KosmopoulosFurther information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				 The Semantic Web was proposed as an evolution of the current Web aiming to establish meaning to web
data, so that it can be shared, reasoned with and re-used by both humans and
machines. The aim of the module is to make the students familiar with the basic
ideas of Semantic Web and its main technologies. It describes briefly the
theoretical background of these technologies, but gives more emphasis on
practical aspects, such as ontology engineering and Semantic Web applications. Learning outcomes: Students will understand
the underlying ideas of Semantic Web and its layered architecture, and will
become familiar with its main technologies including ontology, ontology
languages and query languages. They will also learn how to apply such
technologies to develop knowledge-based models for business domains and applications.Assessment: Assessment by coursework (50%) and examination (50%)Optional for: the module is an
option for second year BSc / MSCi IMB students, but students from other departments are
eligible to register if places area available.Prerequisites: for IMB students: Programming 2, Web Technologies, Users and Management; for students from other
departments: knowledge of HTML and any programming
language is required.Taught by: Antonis BikakisFurther information for students currently taking this module.
				    Information Studies
				    
				This 1st year core course covers both the technical aspects of website construction and maintenance, and the related topics of good design and ongoing management of web-based information systems, user behaviour and digital business issues, for both an organisation’s internal (intranet) and external (internet/extranet) purposes. It aims to develop an appreciation of web-related technologies and user behaviour in such environments and of best practice in the creation, organisation and maintenance of such sites for both internal and external organisational purposes.Learning outcomes: On completing the course students should understand the basic principles of website operation, be familiar with XHTML and related tools and markup languages for website construction, recognise the importance of structure and design for purpose, understand user behaviour and business issues in the web environment, and be aware of the management implications and needs such sites give rise to and how to deal with them effectively.Assessment: Assessment by coursework (50%) and examination (50%)Compulsory for: BSc Information Management for BusinessOptional for: None. This module is also available for short course studentsPrerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this moduleTaught by: Karen StepanyanFurther information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				Although the Department of Information Studies is primarily a postgraduate school, we do offer a selection of modules on information and computing related topics at undergraduate level. The undergraduate modules presently offered by DIS are:In particular, these modules are core components of the BSc / MSci Information Management for Business (IMB), taught jointly by the UCL School of Management, DIS and the Department of Computer Science. The UCL School of Management is the home department for this degree, which is sponsored by the government agency e-skills UK, and as such enjoys the benefits of full collaboration with top industrial sponsors. They are also offerred as optional modules of the Sciences and Engineering Pathway of the Arts and Sciences BASc, an interdisciplinary three-years programme that combines subjects from Arts, Humanities, Social Sciences and Engineering.
                                      URL:
                                      http://www.ucl.ac.uk/dis/taught/pg/INSTG007
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
				    Information Studies
				    
				This course introduces students to a range of issues involved in the design, creation, management and use of electronic resources in the humanities. Topics include humanities resources on the Web, 2D and 3D digitisation and digital imaging, encoding and markup systems, stylometry and text analysis, GIS, electronic dictionaries, user needs, scholarly electronic publishing in the humanities and interdisciplinarity working.The overall aims are to:Learning outcomes: By the end of the module, students will be able toEach teaching session consists of a lecture plus another session, which may be a practical, guest lecture, or visit to a resource.Assessment: Assessment by coursework onlyCompulsory for: MA/MSc in Digital HumanitiesOptional for: This module is an option for students undertaking a Masters degree in Information Science, Archives and Records Management, and Library and Information Studies.Prerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this modulesTaught by: Julianne NyhanFurther information for students currently taking this module Information for prospective students
				    Information Studies
				    
				The delivery of content and information online is becoming
increasingly dynamic and device-driven. This module introduces students to the concepts of markup for web pages, website structuring and design, and the
issues involved in generating,  delivering and evaluating content effectively. Topics
include the design, construction and delivery of online content; best practice and standards for technical, accessibility
and usability issues; information architecture and user experience; re-purposing of content; dynamic, multimedia and 3D applications on the web. Learning outcomes: by the end of the module, students will have an understanding of how
content can be ported across different online environments; be
able to assess and evaluate the effectiveness of website design and
implementation, especially with regard to usability and accessibility for different
audiences; have a practical understanding of real-world applications of what has been covered in the module.Assessment: Assessment is by exam onlyCore module for: the MA/MSc in Digital Humanities, and MSc in Information ScienceOptional for: This module is also available for short course studentsPrerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this module, although some familiarity with HTML is assumed. Taught by:Further information for students currently taking this moduleInformation for prospective students
				    Information Studies
				    
				 This module uses JavaScript (ECMAscript) to introduce the fundamental principles of procedural computer programming and scripting languages. It reinforces these concepts by practical application in the context of automated web browser and document manipulation. Fundamental programming topics include data types, operators, variables, flow control via selection and iteration, arrays and objects, functional abstraction, methods and constructors, abstract data types and pattern matching. Applications include manipulation of web browsers and documents, dynamic generation of web content, and form verification via regular expressions. The module concludes with a brief overview of a range of other common programming languages. Learning outcomes: Upon successful completion of this course, you will have an understanding of the basic principles of procedural computer programming. You will be able to apply this knowledge in order to embed scripts within HTML documents to affect behaviour of web browsers and document content and appearance, and to generate HTML-based web content dynamically. You will be able to write scripts to perform simple form verification using pattern matching and regular expressions. You will have a basic undestanding of the similarities and differences between JavaScript and a range of other common programming languages. Assessment: Assessment by coursework only. Compulsory for: MSc Information Science and MA/MSc Digital Humanities. Optional for: MA Archives and Records Management, MA Library and Information Studies, MA Publishing, MRes in Library, Archive & Information Studies. This module is also available for short course students. Prerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this module, although a basic understanding of HTML and basic computer and I.T. literacy are assumed. Taught by: Rob Miller (r.s.miller@ucl.ac.uk) Timetable: Thursdays 2-5pm in Term 1
Session 1 - Introduction, Overview and Programming Fundamentals
Session 2 - Boolean Expressions and Conditional Statements
Session 3 - Repetition Statements
Session 4 - Objects and Arrays
Session 5 - Functions, Methods and Constructors
Session 6 - Lab Exercise Question and Answer Session
Session 7 - Form Input and HTML Output
Session 8 - Regular expressions
Session 9 - Some Example Programs Using String Methods
Session 10 - An Overview of Some Other Programming Languages Online Resources and Books:Further information for students currently taking this module
                                      URL:
                                      http://www.ucl.ac.uk/dis/taught/pg/INSTG019
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
                                      URL:
                                      http://www.ucl.ac.uk/dis/taught/pg/INSTG020
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
                                      URL:
                                      http://www.ucl.ac.uk/dis/taught/pg/INSTG022
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
                                      URL:
                                      http://www.ucl.ac.uk/dis/taught/pg/INSTG027
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
                                      URL:
                                      http://www.ucl.ac.uk/dis/taught/pg/INSTG032
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
				    Information Studies
				    
				This module provides an introduction to the issues, techniques, 
technologies and underlying principles associated with creating and 
maintaining Web servers and database-driven websites. The course will describe different approaches to extending
the functionality of ‘plain’ web sites by using structured data to build
database driven websites. Using spatial (geographic) data as an example application
area, the students will learn how to develop web sites that can interact with a
spatially enabled database to retrieve and display results, and how they can
add map based interactive elements to a web page. The students will be introduced to the types
of data visualization and analyses that are possible using web-based spatial
data.Learning outcomes: On successful completion of the course, students will: (1) understand
server-side and clients-side approaches to extending web functionality; (2) be able
to write programs in PHP; (3) be
familiar with different types of spatial data; (4) be able
to carry out spatial queries in an SQL database and (5) be able
to embed interactive maps within a web page.Students will also have an understanding of server-based tasks such as maintaining security and correct Web access to different user groups.Time and date: The course runs on Mondays in term 2, and each week consists of a lecture 14:00-15:00, followed by a practical class 15:00-17:00Assessment: Assessment is by an extended practical projectOptional for: MSc Information Science. This module is also available for short course studentsPrerequisites: INSTG018 Introduction to Programming and Scripting. Students who have not taken INSTG018 but who feel that they may have equivalent experience in basic programming and HTML coding should discuss this with the lecturer before to applying to take the moduleTaught by: Oliver Duke-Williams, Antonis BikakisFurther information for prospective studentsFurther information for students currently taking this module
                                      URL:
                                      http://www.ucl.ac.uk/dis/taught/pg/INSTG034
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
                                      URL:
                                      http://www.ucl.ac.uk/dis/taught/pg/INSTG035
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
				    Information Studies
				    
				This module will provide an overview of Extensible Markup language; give students the opportunity to practice XML markup techniques and demonstrate the use of XML in publishing. Topics include document analysis, the basics of markup, DTDs and Schemas, Stylesheets and XSLT, XML in use and future developments in the XML standard. The method of delivery will be mixed, involving lectures, class discussion, and practical lab based sessions. Learning outcomes: By the end of the module students will have an understanding of the principles and role of structured generic markup. They will be able to create well-formed and valid XML documents, write DTDs and Schemas and deliver XML documents over the Web using different style sheets. They will also be able to assess and evaluate the role of XML for the management and delivery of electronic information.Assessment: A practical XML project and written commentaryCore module for: MA/MSc DHOptional for: MSc IS, MA Publishing. This module is also available for short course studentsPrerequisites: Students should have taken and passed G017 Internet Technologies or have experience of working with HTML markup and CSS stylesheets; an introductory session on HTML and CSS is available for anyone without the necessary markup experience.   Taught by: Simon MahonyFurther information for students currently taking this module:  (login required)Information for prospective students:  an indication of the module structure and some preliminary reading.
				    Information Studies
				    
				This course introduces students to a range of issues involved in the design, creation, management and use of electronic resources in the humanities. Topics include humanities resources on the Web, 2D and 3D digitisation and digital imaging, encoding and markup systems, stylometry and text analysis, GIS, electronic dictionaries, user needs, scholarly electronic publishing in the humanities and interdisciplinarity working.The overall aims are to:Learning outcomes: By the end of the module, students will be able toEach teaching session consists of a lecture plus another session, which may be a practical, guest lecture, or visit to a resource.Assessment: Assessment by coursework onlyCompulsory for: MA/MSc in Digital HumanitiesOptional for: This module is an option for students undertaking a Masters degree in Information Science, Archives and Records Management, and Library and Information Studies.Prerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this modulesTaught by: Julianne NyhanFurther information for students currently taking this module Information for prospective students
                                      URL:
                                      http://www.ucl.ac.uk/dis/taught/pg/INSTG041
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
                                      URL:
                                      http://www.ucl.ac.uk/dis/taught/pg/INSTG042
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
                                      URL:
                                      http://www.ucl.ac.uk/dis/taught/pg/INSTG054
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
                                      URL:
                                      http://www.ucl.ac.uk/dis/taught/pg/INSTG055
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
			
				
			
		Sorry, this Silva Document is not viewable.University College London - Gower Street - London - WC1E 6BT -  +44 (0)20 7679 2000 - Copyright © 1999-
<!--
var d = new Date();
var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
document.write(curr_year);
-->
 UCL
                                      URL:
                                      http://www.ucl.ac.uk/dis/taught/pg/mres
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
                                      URL:
                                      http://www.ucl.ac.uk/dis/taught/shortcourses
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
                                      URL:
                                      http://www.ucl.ac.uk/dis/taught/ug
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
                                      URL:
                                      http://www.ucl.ac.uk/silva/dis/taught/shortcourses
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
				    Information Studies
				    
				Many of the modules from the taught programmes offered by UCL Department of Information Studies (DIS) can be taken as a short course.There are no formal requirements for admission, although education to GCE A Level or first degree standard is generally expected. For G033 Server technologies and programming some programming experience, preferably G018 Introduction to programming and scripting, is required.DIS currently offers the following modules as short courses:Each module is taught in the course of a single term, either Term 1: October to December, or Term 2: January to March (click here for further details of UCL term dates).Depending on the module, classes, lectures, seminars and field visits may occupy either a half day or a whole day each week. Classes are normally held from 10.00 to 13.00 or 14.00 to 17.00. In addition, time should be allowed for private study and for completion of coursework. Lectures are normally held on UCL's main site in Gower Street, London WC1; field visits and practical sessions may involve travel to other central London locations.Please check the 2017-18 draft Departmental teaching timetable for more information.Short course students can choose whether or not to take the formal assessment for the module. Assessment normally takes the form of one or more pieces of written coursework [INSTG019 Legal and social aspects is assessed by written examination only]. Short course students do not obtain a recognised qualification from UCL, but can be issued with a certificate of attendance as evidence that they have studied the module(s) of their choice.The fee for a single module short course for UK and EU residents is £750, payable at the start of the module. If your normal place of residence is outside the EU, the fee is £1,000.If you have any further questions, please email: ian.evans@ucl.ac.ukPlease complete a short course application form and send it to:Short Course AdministratorDepartment of Information StudiesUCLGower StreetLondonWC1E 6BTemail: ian.evans@ucl.ac.ukApplications for short courses can be submitted at any time, but places are limited and early application is advised.
				    Information Studies
				    
				Our courses and modules are also open to those people wishing to update or fill-in gaps their professional skills.Rated by both The Times and The Guardian as the best 
information school in the UK, the fact that Information Studies offers a
 high quality teaching environment should come as no surprise. This is 
all because of our dedicated, professional staff – many of whom are the 
best selling authors of the standard textbooks that are compulsory 
reading; small class sizes; the high quality of our students; and our 
highly personal and caring culture.We largely 
teach at the postgraduate level and offer probably the widest
 range of information disciplines in the country, covering the fields of
 Librarianship, Information Science, Archives, Records Management, 
Digital Humanities and Publishing. By offering such a wide range 
of fields we not only provide wide professional choice but also, via 
options etc, the important context in which to study the individual 
information discipline of your choice. Whatever the field chosen, our 
prime objective is to provide students with professionally relevant 
skills and skills which prepare them to function at the very highest 
managerial level.We also teach on the Information Management for Business (IMB) BSc at 
the undergraduate level and here too we aim to help turn out students 
who will be tomorrow’s industry leaders. The IMB degree is characterised
 by its interdisciplinarity, representing as it does the collaborative 
efforts of three top-class UCL departments -  Management Science & 
Innovation (the degree's home department), Information Studies, and 
Computer Science.
				    Information Studies
				    
				
				    Information Studies
				    
				This module provides students with the knowledge and understanding necessary to provide appropriate and meaningful access to physical, digitised and born-digital records and archives. The course reviews the changing concept of 'access' to records and archives within the context of UK government policies and international developments, technological developments, cross-sectorial collaboration and community-based archive initiatives. It covers topics such as compliance with access to information and privacy legislations; diversity imperatives and the recognition of physical and social barriers to access archives and records; the development and provision of outreach programmes, exhibitions, publications, websites, and social media initiatives; user services (online and onsite) including supporting learning and the identification of user needs.  Topics covered:Learning outcomes: By the end of this module students will be aware of the professional contexts underpinning access strategies, be able to provide appropriate access to records in a given situation using a range of tools, will be able to identify and work towards the removal barriers to access and be able to deal positively and effectively with users.Introductory reading J Bettington, K Eberhard, et al (eds.), Keeping archives (3rd edition), ASA Canberra 2008, esp. chapters 11-14H. Jenkinson, A Manual of Archive Administration, 2nd edition, London 1966Randall C. Jimerson, Archives Power. Memory, Accountability and Social Justice, SAA 2009C Kecskemeti & I Szekely, Access to archives, Council of Europe 2005S. McKemmish et al, Archives: Recordkeeping in Society, Wagga Wagga 2005C Williams, Managing Archives, Oxford, 2006, Chapters 5Assessment: Assessment coursework only (15 credits)This module is compulsory for students taking: Archives and Records Management (MA & Diploma) Optional for: Archives and Records Management (Certificate)This module is also available for short course studentsPrerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this moduleTaught by: Andrew Flinn, Thursday mornings 10am-1pm during term 2. Darwin Building B15Further information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				      This year is the first for a re-designed module on Collections
Care that will better reflect the needs of those responsible for the challenges
inherent in preservation management, conservation programming and the
collection care needs of library and archival material and will include digital
preservation, photographic media, disaster planning and archival standards. In
this way, this module will reflect the needs of those studying Information
Management and the responsibilities of providing access to information. A range of guest speakers will introduce many of the topics,
which will include the moving of book and archive collections, the management
of archival building projects and the challenges presented by photographs,
film, and audio-visual materials. There will also be opportunities to hear
experts talk on environmental management issues, on preparing for, and managing
a disaster, and a practical session, utilising digital preservation software.
In addition students will be encouraged to interact with speakers and will have
formal sessions for the preparation of questions to encourage both interaction
and debate. The programme, consists of ten sessions, and will present a wide-
ranging and exceptional series of lectures on all the key aspects of
collections care. Session
by session:The
challenges of remedial conservation; visit to the Wellcome Trust Conservation
studiosAssessment: Assessment by
coursework onlyOptional
for:
MA, Diploma and Certificate students in Library and Information Studies,
Archives and Records Management, Records and Archives Management
(International). This module is also available for short course studentsPrerequisites: The purpose of this
course is to build upon and extend the study of preservation issues affecting archive
and library collections. To ensure that participants get the full benefit of
the analysis and discussions, it is advised that students need a good feel for,
and basic grounding in, preservation management and planning. To assist those
joining this course it is recommended that the following preparatory reading be
undertaken: 1.
Forde, H. and Rhys-Lewis, J., Preserving Archives, 2nd
edition, Facet Publishing, 2013 2. A
general awareness of the issues covered by both: 3. British Standards Institution and the
Collections Trust, Code of practice for
cultural collections management, PAS 197:2009 Taught by:
Jonathan Rhys-Lewis, ACR, leading Collections Care Consultant
				    Information Studies
				    
				Cataloguing: Theoretical underpinnings of Cataloguing as a discipline; bibliographic models including FRBR and BIBFRAME; brief history of catalogue codes, in order to familiarize students with catalogues compiled under older rules; development of ISBD, AACR and RDA; practical descriptive cataloguing; development of MARC format; practical cataloguing using MARC 21 format.Classification: Intellectual organization of knowledge and the physical arrangement of documents; principles underlying the design and construction of subject indexing tools; factors affecting subject access to documents both in physical and digital environments; how to identify the semantic content of documents; practical work in application of standards for subject description, specifically LCSH, and classification schemes DDC, UDC, LCC.Compulsory for: MA LISTaught by: Vanda Broughton and Anne WelshFurther information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				 Course overviewTo introduce students to an extended range of techniques for the intellectual organization of knowledge; to examine criteria for the cataloguing and indexing of special forms of material, including digital materials; to promote understanding of the structure of different forms of subject indexing languages, such as classification schemes, thesauri and subject headings; to impart skills in the cataloguing of diverse materials and in the design and construction of indexing tools. Assessment: Assessment by coursework onlyOptional for: MA LISTaught by: Anne WelshFurther information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				This course considers the processes of library collection development including selection and acquisition principles and methods; retention, preservation and security policies; storage policies and planning; use and users; access to and promotion of collections; service provision; information literacy; evaluation and retention of collections; preservation strategies and conservation options. Issues relating to acquisition, access and preservation of electronic material and special issues relating to serials, interlibrary loan and document supply, financial issues, co-operation and resource sharing will be discussed.Students taking this core module will examine in detail the key issues around library collection management as “the process of planning, delivering, maintaining and evaluating a programme of stock acquisition and management which meets current objectives and builds a coherent and reliable collection to allow for future development of the service”. (CILIP PKSB 2012:26) By the end of the module, students will:Guide programme (for detailed schedule registered students access Moodle)Preliminary reading - there is no set text for this module. These general texts all contain appropriate materials. You may find them interchangeable and you do not need to read them all. The Introductory chapter of these texts should provide you with a useful initial guide to the subject. We also look very closely at existing Collection Management policies drawn from the information profession - plenty of these available openly on the WWW.Assessment: Assessment by coursework onlyCompulsory for: MA Library and Information StudiesPrerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this moduleTaught by: Dr Charles InskipFurther information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				This module aims to provide a sound understanding, both theoretical and practical, of basic systems theory, approaches to analysis, common methodologies, and the tasks of analysis and design in the context of developing computer-based information systems; the skills to apply such theory and methodologies, and to undertake such tasks; a clear knowledge of the various requirements for a successful methodology in the field; and confidence and skills to complete extended tasks using them.Learning outcomes: By the end of the module, students will have an understanding of: basic systems theory; common SAD methodologies; feasibility studies and collecting data; recording and modelling processes; recording and modelling data; interpretation of data and requirements specifications. They will be able to analyse information systems in accordance with classic systems analysis techniques and to design, implement and maintain information systems/databases.This module runs on Tuesday afternoons in Term 2. and a broad outline of content is given below.Week 1 Introduction to Systems AnalysisWeeks 2-3 Process Analysis and modelling, dataflow diagrammingWeek 4 Data analysis and modelling, Entity-Relationship modellingWeek 5 - NormalisationWeek 6 Reading WeekWeek 7 - data modelling exercises and reviewWeeks 8-11 Project tutorialsAssessment: Assessment by coursework onlyCompulsory for: MSc Information ScienceOptional for: MA LIS, MA ECP, MA/MSc DH, MA ARM. This module is also available for short course studentsPreliminary reading:Yeates, D., Shields, M. & Helmy, D. (eds.), Systems analysis and design. Pitman, 1994 (now sadly OOP)Skidmore, S. & Eva M. Introducing systems development. Palgrave Macmillan, 2004Connolly, T & Begg, C. Database systems : a practical approach to design, implementation, and management 5th ed. Addison-Wesley, 2010Bowman, K. Systems Analysis: a beginner's guide.  Palgrave Macmillan 2004Harrington, Jan, Relational database design clearly explained 3rd ed. Morgan-Kaufman, 2009Prerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this moduleTaught by: Andy DawsonFurther information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				This course introduces students to a range of issues involved in the design, creation, management and use of electronic resources in the humanities. Topics include humanities resources on the Web, 2D and 3D digitisation and digital imaging, encoding and markup systems, stylometry and text analysis, GIS, electronic dictionaries, user needs, scholarly electronic publishing in the humanities and interdisciplinarity working.The overall aims are to:Learning outcomes: By the end of the module, students will be able toEach teaching session consists of a lecture plus another session, which may be a practical, guest lecture, or visit to a resource.Assessment: Assessment by coursework onlyCompulsory for: MA/MSc in Digital HumanitiesOptional for: This module is an option for students undertaking a Masters degree in Information Science, Archives and Records Management, and Library and Information Studies.Prerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this modulesTaught by: Julianne NyhanFurther information for students currently taking this module Information for prospective students
				    Information Studies
				    
				Aims to provide an understanding of the book as physical object, with an emphasis on published and unpublished material produced pre-1850. Lectures and reading cover the history of the book while practical sessions cover bibliographic description, including title page facsimile and an overview of DCRM(B).By the end of the course, students will have an overview of the history of the book and the materials that make it up (paper, vellum, bindings, ilustrations, print, etc.), some practical exerience of bibliographic description, and knowledge of the major techniques for research, including provenance research, copy census and reader analysis.In practical sessions, students work with materials from UCL Special Collections, UCL School of Slavonic and Eastern European Studies and UCL Art Museum. Sessions are led by a team including Fred Bearman (Preservation Librarian), Andrea Fredericksen (Art Museum Curator), Genny Grim (SSEES Cataloguer) and Anne Welsh (Lecturer in LIS and Module Coordinator). We usually visit St Bride's Printing Library during the module and an optional summer visit is usually arranged. Past visits have included the Oxford Bibliography Room and the Tate Library.A flyer (pdf), intended to be gatefolded, designed for the Rare Books and Special Collections Group Conference 2012, can be downloaded from Anne's blog.A video overview of UCL Special Collections, including vox pops from several 2009 Historical Bibliography students is available on the library website..Assessment: Assessment by coursework onlyOptional for: MA LIS, MA ARM. This module is also available for short course studentsTaught by: Anne WelshFurther information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				This module aims to give participants an understanding of information resources and bibliographic control, and confidence in working with differing resources in a range of subjects to answer both reference and research queries. Students will have an awareness of factors for change and their likely impact on information resources and retrieval. We will consider:On successful completion students will Guide programme (current students see Moodle for timetable)UCL Subject librarians make an important contribution to the weekly practical computer lab elements of these classes.Preliminary readingThere is no set text for this module. Introductory paragraphs from these texts should provide you with appropriate background for the module.Assessment: Assessment by coursework onlyCompulsory for: MA LIS students. This module is also available for short course studentsPrerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this moduleTaught by: Charles InskipFurther information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				The delivery of content and information online is becoming
increasingly dynamic and device-driven. This module introduces students to the concepts of markup for web pages, website structuring and design, and the
issues involved in generating,  delivering and evaluating content effectively. Topics
include the design, construction and delivery of online content; best practice and standards for technical, accessibility
and usability issues; information architecture and user experience; re-purposing of content; dynamic, multimedia and 3D applications on the web. Learning outcomes: by the end of the module, students will have an understanding of how
content can be ported across different online environments; be
able to assess and evaluate the effectiveness of website design and
implementation, especially with regard to usability and accessibility for different
audiences; have a practical understanding of real-world applications of what has been covered in the module.Assessment: Assessment is by exam onlyCore module for: the MA/MSc in Digital Humanities, and MSc in Information ScienceOptional for: This module is also available for short course studentsPrerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this module, although some familiarity with HTML is assumed. Taught by:Further information for students currently taking this moduleInformation for prospective students
				    Information Studies
				    
				 This module uses JavaScript (ECMAscript) to introduce the fundamental principles of procedural computer programming and scripting languages. It reinforces these concepts by practical application in the context of automated web browser and document manipulation. Fundamental programming topics include data types, operators, variables, flow control via selection and iteration, arrays and objects, functional abstraction, methods and constructors, abstract data types and pattern matching. Applications include manipulation of web browsers and documents, dynamic generation of web content, and form verification via regular expressions. The module concludes with a brief overview of a range of other common programming languages. Learning outcomes: Upon successful completion of this course, you will have an understanding of the basic principles of procedural computer programming. You will be able to apply this knowledge in order to embed scripts within HTML documents to affect behaviour of web browsers and document content and appearance, and to generate HTML-based web content dynamically. You will be able to write scripts to perform simple form verification using pattern matching and regular expressions. You will have a basic undestanding of the similarities and differences between JavaScript and a range of other common programming languages. Assessment: Assessment by coursework only. Compulsory for: MSc Information Science and MA/MSc Digital Humanities. Optional for: MA Archives and Records Management, MA Library and Information Studies, MA Publishing, MRes in Library, Archive & Information Studies. This module is also available for short course students. Prerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this module, although a basic understanding of HTML and basic computer and I.T. literacy are assumed. Taught by: Rob Miller (r.s.miller@ucl.ac.uk) Timetable: Thursdays 2-5pm in Term 1
Session 1 - Introduction, Overview and Programming Fundamentals
Session 2 - Boolean Expressions and Conditional Statements
Session 3 - Repetition Statements
Session 4 - Objects and Arrays
Session 5 - Functions, Methods and Constructors
Session 6 - Lab Exercise Question and Answer Session
Session 7 - Form Input and HTML Output
Session 8 - Regular expressions
Session 9 - Some Example Programs Using String Methods
Session 10 - An Overview of Some Other Programming Languages Online Resources and Books:Further information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				This module explores the link between electronic publishing technologies, society and the law. Topics covered include, virtual communities; freedom of information and data protection; control of information and hacking; surveillance and legal access to information; health information; government information; copyright. The method of delivery is mixed and includes weekly set readings, lectures by expert guest speakers, short student presentations, and seminar discussion. Learning outcomes: By the end of the module, students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the impact of information on technological change; society; government and international relations; the place of the individual in virtual or actual communities; discuss how legislation and information affect each other; identify key issues involved in the development of the 'Information Society'; articulate personal perspectives, and show a critical awareness of the positive and negative issues of the information society. They will also have an understanding of copyright legislation in a national and international context. Assessment: Assessment is by an unseen written examCore module for: noneOptional for: MSc IS, MA/MSc DH, MA Publishing, MA Translation Studies. This module is also available for short course studentsTaught by: Simon MahonyInformation for prospective students: an indication of the module structure.Further information for students currently taking this module  (login required)
				    Information Studies
				    
				This module introduces general management principles and their relevance to all aspects of library, archive and information sector practice.During the module we will consider the ethical and legal context of information services. We will examine organizational, strategic, financial, marketing and evaluative principles and practice. We will look at issues involved in human resource planning and development, and leadership.The importance of analytical, personal and transferable management and communication competencies to meet the demands of a changing professional environment is emphasized.Learning outcomes: By the end of the module, students will be able toLearning and teaching uses a mixed approach combining:Indicative term outline:Assessment: Assessment is by a combination of coursework assignments.  (There is no examination for this module).Taught: in the Spring term on Tuesdays, 10.00-13.00, coordinated by Elizabeth Lomas Compulsory for: MA Library and Information StudiesOpen to: All other DIS students, as their programme timetables permit.Auditing the module: Students registered for DIS programmes may sit in on this module by agreement with the tutor, but must be prepared to join in with all group-work, seminars, practical class exercises and discussions.Note: This module is also available for short course students.  For further information on short courses please see: Short Courses: CPD and Short Courses at UCL Department of Information StudiesPrerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this moduleSuggested preliminary reading:Further information for students currently taking this module 
				    Information Studies
				    
				This module considers management skills for the archives and records professional and the management of archival activities. Management for archivists and records professionals includes strategic planning, management issues in public and private sectors, performance measurement, budgeting, costing and fundraising, and human resources planning. In addition, self management key skills such as time management, presentation and report writing, team working and project management are developed. Career planning and continuing professional development sessions are held.Learning outcomes: By the end of the module, students will have:• identified a range of management skills relevant to providing professional services in an archive and records management context• practised some self management key skills • the knowledge to plan their continuing professional developmentLearning is through a mixture of lectures, invited speakers, private reading and practical work.Session by session topics: The module is taught in Term 1 on Wednesday mornings (10am - 1pm) with group work in afternoon sessions (2pm-3pm, room available until 4pm)Assessment: Assessment is by one piece of coursework, worth 15 creditsCompulsory for: MA in Archives and Records ManagementOptional for: This module is also available for short course studentsPrerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this module, but some familiarity with the archives and records management workplace is assumedTaught by: Elizabeth ShepherdIntroductory text: Boddy, D. Essentials of management : a concise introduction, Harlow : Pearson 2012Further information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				This module introduces
students to the province of medieval manuscripts, providing a foundation of the
knowledge necessary to deal with manuscripts in a rare-books environment. The
focus is the medieval book as object: how it was created and stored in its
medieval setting, how it came into the hands of early-modern and modern
collectors, and how it comes to be used and regarded in the present.The core of the
course is a survey of the scripts in use in western Europe from Antiquity to
the Renaissance. Students will be introduced to key landmarks along the road
and to the varieties of names and terms that palaeographers use when discussing
handwriting. Time each week will be given to script-history and to the business
of reading medieval handwriting (introducing some of the common ways in which
words were abbreviated). In addition, we will explore aspects of the medieval
book, working outwards from its physical construction and binding to its place
in the medieval, and then early-modern, library, and finally to modern
cataloguing practices.The broad objectives
are to attain familiarity with the key reference literature, to read and recognize
the styles of script that were in use in western Europe, and to be able to
understand the books in their changing curatorial contexts.Taught by: David Rundle (University of Oxford) in
Term 2 (2016/17).Assessment: Assessment is in two parts: a short
transcription of a specimen of medieval writing (done in test conditions,
representing thirty per cent of the mark) and a coursework essay. Optional for: MA LIS, MA ARM, MA/MSc DH. This module is
also available for short course students.Prerequisites: The course is taught from first principles
and requires no formal prior knowledge. It is an unavoidable fact that almost
the totality of literate production in the middle ages was in Latin. But while
our examples of books and scripts will, unavoidably, be latinate, it is
important to state that knowledge of Latin is not a prerequisite of the course
and forms no part of the assessment.Preliminary reading: There is no essential
preliminary reading for the course, but for orientation students may wish to dip
into any of the following:B.
Bischoff, Latin Palaeography: Antiquity
and the Middle Ages (Cambridge 1990). [Editions also in German,
French and Italian.]
 
 M.
B. Parkes, Their Hands Before Our Eyes:
a Closer Look at Scribes (Aldershot 2008).J.
Roberts, Guide to Scripts Used in English
Writings up to 1500 (London 2005).Further information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				This course provides an introduction to basic concepts in computing and IT both generally and in the context of information work. It intends to develop a thorough understanding of how computer systems work, and the advantages and limitations of computer systems; to recognise the implications of using such systems, and to emphasise that whilst computers can be useful tools, they are not a solution to information problems in themselves; to give students sufficient confidence to talk to computer specialists and recognize the difference between hype and well-founded knowledge; to emphasise that every automated system must be designed with the needs of its users always in mind; to establish a basic understanding of and competency with the use of mainstream internet-related technologies (including the design of web pages), spreadsheets and database tools.Learning outcomes: Upon successful completion of this course, you will have an understanding of: basic principles of computing and how computer systems work; basic concepts of data representation and structure; database types and basic mechanisms for information retrieval from databases; data capture and digitisation techniques; fundamental considerations of HCI and system design; basic concepts relating to the assessment and evaluation of systems for infomation creation, storage, management and use; basic network technologies and markup languages; spreadsheet and database usage.This module takes place on Tuesday mornings (with practicals on Tuesday or Wedenesday mornings) in term 1.Outline timetable:Week 1 Introduction - Jargon, systems thinkingWeek 2 How computers work 1 - Processors, hardwareWeek 3 How computers work 2 - Software, data representation and structure, operating systemsWeek 4 No classes (Internet Librarian conference)Week 5 Networks 1 - technology of networking, markup languagesWeek 6 Reading WeekWeek 7 Networks 2 - Internet use and provisionWeek 8 Databases - types of database, database indexing and retrievalWeek 9 Imaging and Digitisation - image formats, image management, OCRWeek 10  Human-Computer Interaction (HCI)Week 11 System considerations: system selection, virus protection, artificial intelligencePreliminary reading:Brookshear, G. Computer Science: an overview, 11th ed. Addison-Wesley, 2011Kroski, E (series ed). The Tech Set (10 vols). London, Facet, 2010Miller, J. Internet technologies and information services. London : Libraries Unlimited, 2009Harris, A. HTML, XHTML and CSS All-in-One For Dummies 2nd ed. Indianapolis: Wiley, 2011Brophy, P. The library in the twenty-first century 2nd ed. London : Facet, 2007Assessment: Assessment by coursework onlyCompulsory for: MA LIS Optional for: MA ECP, MSc IS, MA ARM. This module is also available for short course studentsPrerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this module, but participants are assumed to have keyboarding skills and a basic level of computer experience with a PC environment. If in doubt, you are advised to discuss this with the course lecturer before beginning this moduleTaught by: Andy DawsonFurther information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				To foster awareness of professional identity and of the purpose and role of the professional librarian; to encourage a broad view of the professional skills as applicable to a variety of employment sectors; to promote an understanding of the relationships between the other courses in the programme; to identify pervasive trends in the profession; to promote awareness of current social and political issues; to support a critical and analytical approach to professional activity. The aim of the case study is to relate the theoretical knowledge acquired through the core courses of the programme to a specific real-life situation.Teaching: This module is not specifically taughtAssessment:(1) A case study of approximately 3,000 words describing and evaluating an aspect of professional practice as exemplified in an event, procedure, project or other professional issue as observed in a specific present-day workplace environment. The topic must be so chosen as to avoid overlap with the dissertation.(2) An integrative examination to bring together topics from all the core courses of the programme and to include general professional awareness.Compulsory for: MA/Postgraduate Diploma LISFurther information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				This course provides practical training in transcribing, understanding and interpreting a range of the documents employed in personal, legal, financial and administrative transactions in England and Wales from the sixteenth to twentieth centuries. It enables the students to read archives and to develop an understanding of their legal and administrative backgrounds. Topics covered will include development of letter forms from 1500 to 1900; specialist secretary, financial and legal scripts; palaeographical abbreviations and contractions; orthography in vernacular writing from 1500 onwards; historical chronology and dating; overview of English land law and its underlying concepts from 1500; diplomatic formulae; methods of authentication; application of diplomatic to modern electronic media.Learning outcomes: By the end of the module, students will be able to transcribe the different scripts, including the specialist legal, financial and charter hands, accurately and with reasonable fluency. They will also understand the historical and legal contexts in which the records were produced and will know the meaning of the diplomatic formulae employed, which will enable them to provide competent archival finding aids and to assist visitors in the search room who may have trouble reading and interpreting difficult scripts and documents.Session by session (draft):Assessment: some palaeographical transcriptions & a longer interpretive exercise (15 credits)Compulsory for: only students registered on ARM programme prior to 2012-13Optional for: ARM studentsTaught by: Peter Foden in term 2, Tuesday morning 10am-1pm Introductory reading - Hilary Marshall, Palaeography for Family and Local Historians (Philimore 2004) Further information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				Compulsory module for students taking the MA/Diploma/Certificate in Archives and Records Management.This module will look at the creation and capture of records and information within organisations in the course of their business. It will introduce students to records management approaches and techniques that can be applied to information created, received and used by organisations in a world of rapidly-changing digital technology. It sets records management in a wider risk and compliance context.By the end of the module, students will be able to understand the role of a records management programme within an organisation, manage current and non-current records systems using professional techniques, understand the challenges of digital records and develop strategies for their management, and design systems for the retention and disposition of records.Timetable: Taught classes will be held on Thursday mornings (normally 10.00-1.00) and some Thursday afternoons in term 1, beginning on 8th October 2015. The first part of the course will introduce students to records management and the organisational and technological environments in which records are created. The course will consider the classification of records, together with tools and systems for their creation and capture in a range of organisational settings taking into account compliance and the place of the retention schedule.The latter part of the course will build on the students understanding of managing records in the 'real world'. It will consider building systems in practice, delivering a records management programme and selling the benefits of a programme. Throughout the term, lectures and group exercises are supplemented by a variety of guest speakers, and towards the end of the term students will have the opportunity to present their own findings to the class.Field visits, to enable students to see examples of records management in practice, take place on some Thursdays throughout the term.Assessment: Assessment by coursework only (one piece of written work).Taught by: Elizabeth LomasVenue: AM Gordon House Room 106 PM G21 Ramsay LT Christopher IngoldAvailability: This module is suitable for interested short course students .Preliminary reading: for brief introductions to records management concepts and functions, see the records management web pages of the National Archives of Scotland and the State Records Authority of New South Wales.The core text for this module is Elizabeth Shepherd and Geoffrey Yeo, Managing Records: a handbook of principles and practice (Facet Publishing, 2003). Also useful are Julie McLeod and Catherine Hare, How to Manage Records in the E-environment (Routledge, 2006) and (at a very basic level) Judith Read and Mary Lea Ginn, Records Management (South-Western Cengage Learning, 2011). It is not essential for students to read these or other texts before starting the module, although a little preliminary reading before the module begins can often be beneficial.Further information for students taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				This module provides an introduction to the issues, techniques, 
technologies and underlying principles associated with creating and 
maintaining Web servers and database-driven websites. The course will describe different approaches to extending
the functionality of ‘plain’ web sites by using structured data to build
database driven websites. Using spatial (geographic) data as an example application
area, the students will learn how to develop web sites that can interact with a
spatially enabled database to retrieve and display results, and how they can
add map based interactive elements to a web page. The students will be introduced to the types
of data visualization and analyses that are possible using web-based spatial
data.Learning outcomes: On successful completion of the course, students will: (1) understand
server-side and clients-side approaches to extending web functionality; (2) be able
to write programs in PHP; (3) be
familiar with different types of spatial data; (4) be able
to carry out spatial queries in an SQL database and (5) be able
to embed interactive maps within a web page.Students will also have an understanding of server-based tasks such as maintaining security and correct Web access to different user groups.Time and date: The course runs on Mondays in term 2, and each week consists of a lecture 14:00-15:00, followed by a practical class 15:00-17:00Assessment: Assessment is by an extended practical projectOptional for: MSc Information Science. This module is also available for short course studentsPrerequisites: INSTG018 Introduction to Programming and Scripting. Students who have not taken INSTG018 but who feel that they may have equivalent experience in basic programming and HTML coding should discuss this with the lecturer before to applying to take the moduleTaught by: Oliver Duke-Williams, Antonis BikakisFurther information for prospective studentsFurther information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				This course provides a sound understanding of a range of issues relating to computer systems management and operation, including: day-to-day systems management, maintenance, user support, project management, system selection and evaluation, types of network, network management; website management, systems access and security, privacy, encryption, virus control, disaster planning, and system migration.Learning outcomes: Upon successful completion of this course, students will have an awareness and understanding of: day-to-day systems-, database-, network- and website-management tasks; how to implement and manage measures to support systems access and security, including virus control; project management techniques, including how to plan for systems purchase, replacement and migration; the importance of forward-, maintenance- and disaster-planning; risk assessment; options for systems and user support.This module runs on Wednesday mornings in term 2.Outline timetable:Week 1 - Introduction and overviewWeek 2 - Project management, planning and analysisWeek 3 - System specification and selectionWeek 4 - System migration and data conversionWeek 5 - Network management, system maintenance and user supportWeek 6 - Reading WeekWeek 7 TUTORIAL WEEK - no lecture: book individual tutorialsWeek 8 - Disaster planning, virus controlWeek 9 - Security and related issuesWeek 10 - Website management and promotionPreliminary reading:McNurlin, B, Sprague, R & Bui, T. Information systems management in practice 8th ed. Upper Saddle River, N.J. : Prentice Hall, 2009.White, M. The Intranet management handbook. London : Facet, 2011Kyle, Mackenzie, , Making it happen : a non-technical guide to project management. Toronto ; New York : J. Wiley , 1998.Barker, S & Cole, R. Brilliant project management : what the best project managers know, say and do. Harlow : Pearson Prentice Hall, 2009.Cortada, J. How societies embrace information technology : lessons for management and the rest of us. Hoboken, N.J. : Wiley, 2009Assessment: Assessment by coursework onlyCompulsory for: MSc Information Science, MA ECPOptional for: MA LIS, MA ARM, MA/MSc DH. This module is also available for short course studentsPrerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this moduleTaught by: Andy DawsonFurther information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				This module will provide an overview of Extensible Markup language; give students the opportunity to practice XML markup techniques and demonstrate the use of XML in publishing. Topics include document analysis, the basics of markup, DTDs and Schemas, Stylesheets and XSLT, XML in use and future developments in the XML standard. The method of delivery will be mixed, involving lectures, class discussion, and practical lab based sessions. Learning outcomes: By the end of the module students will have an understanding of the principles and role of structured generic markup. They will be able to create well-formed and valid XML documents, write DTDs and Schemas and deliver XML documents over the Web using different style sheets. They will also be able to assess and evaluate the role of XML for the management and delivery of electronic information.Assessment: A practical XML project and written commentaryCore module for: MA/MSc DHOptional for: MSc IS, MA Publishing. This module is also available for short course studentsPrerequisites: Students should have taken and passed G017 Internet Technologies or have experience of working with HTML markup and CSS stylesheets; an introductory session on HTML and CSS is available for anyone without the necessary markup experience.   Taught by: Simon MahonyFurther information for students currently taking this module:  (login required)Information for prospective students:  an indication of the module structure and some preliminary reading.
				    Information Studies
				    
				 This module provides a critical overview of the world of electronic publishing, whether commercial or non-commercial, and discusses various different types of products and techniques used in electronic publishing. The module is delivered with the aid of visiting speakers from the publishing industry, and the library and information profession, class discussion, and practical sessions in a computer lab. Topics covered include: electronic journals and open access; Web 2.0; metadata and sustainability; digitisation and preservation; human computer interaction; and the development of new digital products. Learning outcomes: By the end of the module students will have an understanding of the development of the electronic publishing industry and its current state, an awareness of the opportunities of the information revolution for traditional publishing practices. They will demonstrate ability to work in groups and to present their ideas both verbally and in writing. Assessment: Group coursework consisting of a report and oral presentation, plus an individual essay. Core module for: none Optional for: MA LIS, MA/MSc DH, MSc IS, MA Publishing, MA Translation Studies. This module is also available for short course studentsTaught by: Simon Mahony Information for prospective students:  an indication of the module structure and some preliminary reading. Information for students currently taking this module (login required)
				    Information Studies
				    
				This module explores the provision of finding aids and archival material in the online environment. It examines the background and development of EAD and EAC (Encoded Archival Context), their relationship to the principles of archival description, and their practical application to the descriptive work of archivists. In addition, this module considers some of the wider issues surrounding the presentation of digitised archival content, such as copyright and sustainability. Students will be expected to critically assess a range of current projects and to consider questions including, what determines what gets digitised, what should be the role of the commercial sector in such projects and what constitutes good practice in this area?Further information for students currently taking this module 
				    Information Studies
				    
				These modules allow students (especially part-time students who wish to relate their work to practical external projects) to undertake individual study and/or research in specific areas not otherwise covered by standard components, and/or to explore in greater detail some of the topics which are introduced in more general terms in other preceding courses; and to encourage methods of research, investigation and presentation which will be developed in the final dissertation.Since each student undertaking these courses is undertaking unique work, the specific educational aims and objectives of each implementation (and all other parameters required) must be agreed, documented and approved by the programme director and relevant tutor before any student's registration for the modules may be accepted.Individual Approved Studies (with different agreed content) may be offered multiply, as up to three separate option choices (i.e. as INSTG042, INSTG043 and INSTG044), subject to the approval of the Programme Director.Learning outcomes: Dependent on subjectAssessment: Assessment by coursework onlyCompulsory for: NoneOptional for: MSc IS. This module is also available for short course studentsPrerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this module, although formal approval of the Programme Director is required before any Individual Study may be undertakenTaught by: Dependent on subject
				    Information Studies
				    
				These modules allow students (especially part-time students who wish to relate their work to practical external projects) to undertake individual study and/or research in specific areas not otherwise covered by standard components, and/or to explore in greater detail some of the topics which are introduced in more general terms in other preceding courses; and to encourage methods of research, investigation and presentation which will be developed in the final dissertation.Since each student undertaking these courses is undertaking unique work, the specific educational aims and objectives of each implementation (and all other parameters required) must be agreed, documented and approved by the programme director and relevant tutor before any student's registration for the modules may be accepted.Individual Approved Studies (with different agreed content) may be offered multiply, as up to three separate option choices (i.e. as INSTG042, INSTG043 and INSTG044), subject to the approval of the Programme Director.Learning outcomes: Dependent on subjectAssessment: Assessment by coursework onlyCompulsory for: NoneOptional for: MSc IS. This module is also available for short course studentsPrerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this module, although formal approval of the Programme Director is required before any Individual Study may be undertakenTaught by: Dependent on subject
				    Information Studies
				    
				 
This is an optional module for students taking the MA/MSc in Digital Humanities programme. 
This module allows students (especially part-time students who wish to 
relate their work to practical external projects) to undertake 
individual study and/or research in specific areas not otherwise covered
 by standard components of their programme, and/or to explore in greater
 detail some of the topics which are introduced in more general terms in
 other preceding modules; to encourage methods of research, 
investigation and presentation which will be developed in the final 
dissertation. Note that although work for this module may prepare the 
groundwork for your intended dissertation, it may not overlap with it.
 
Since each student taking this module is undertaking unique work, the 
specific educational aims and objectives of this module (and all other 
parameters required) must be agreed, documented and approved by the 
Programme Director and potential Supervisor before any student's 
registration for the module may be accepted.
 
This module requires the same amount of work hours as any other 15 
credit module (i.e. 15 credits equates to an assumed 150 hours of 
study/research/preparation/writing) 
  Learning outcomes: Dependent on subject.
 Assessment: Assessment is by coursework only (normally 
an essay of 3,500 to 5,000 words with the length to be agreed with the Supervisor and Programme Director). The presentation of the coursework must be in 
accordance with the departmental and College guidelines with regards to 
formatting, citation, and bibliography.

 Compulsory for: None.
 Optional for: MA/MSc Digital Humanities. 

 Prerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for 
this module, although the formal approval of the Programme Director is 
required before any student can be registered for this module. 
 Taught by: Dependent on subject. The usual format is 
for one initial meeting between the student and Supervisor to set the 
timetable and agree a plan. This should then be followed by two further 
supervisory meetings later in the term to review the progress of the 
student.  
 Deadlines: as this module either follows up on topics 
from taught modules or acts as preparation for the dissertation it is 
generally only available in Term 2. To be registered for this module the
 proposal must be agreed with the Programme Director and potential 
Supervisor by the end of the first week of Term 2. To allow for this 
research proposals must be submitted to the Programme Director by the 
last day of Term 1. For guidance on what is expected in a research 
proposal see the DH Dissertation Page. The 
coursework submission date will be agreed with the Supervisor at the 
first meeting.

				    Information Studies
				    
				This course provides a foundation in information science, particularly for those without a formal information background. It serves as an introduction to key concepts of information science, and shows their relationship to professional practice; engages students with issues relating to the application of technology to the information world; and provides a grounding in key aspects of the professional body of knowledge required by CILIP (Chartered Institute of Library and Information Professionals).Learning outcomes: Upon successful completion of this course, you will have an understanding of the key concepts and issues of the academic discipline of information science, and be able to appreciate the relevance and practical application of these concepts and issues to professional information practiceThis module runs on Friday afternoons in term 1.Module OutlineThis module is being redesigned for 2013-14 to focus on small group tutorial teaching and the final timetable will not be available until shortly before term commences. However, topics which will be covered will include:Information Science and Theories of InformationUsability and User-Centered DesignInformation Seeking BehaviourKnowledge OrganisationInformation RetrievalInformation Communication models, the publication process Information Society and Information EconomicsInformation Quality, trust and ethicsPreliminary Reading:Bawden, D. & Robinson, L. Introduction to Information Science. Facet, 2012Gilchrist, A. (ed) Information Science in transition. London: Facet, 2009Nicholas, D. & Rowlands, I. (eds) Digital consumers : reshaping the information professions. London : Facet, 2008Svenonius, E. The intellectual foundation of information organization. London : MIT Press, 2000Krug, S. Don't make me think! A commonsense approach to web usability 2nd ed. Berkeley: New Riders, 2006Norman, D. The design of everyday things. Basic books, 2002 (2013 revised ed. in press)Assessment: Assessment by coursework only (including peer assessment)Compulsory for: None - However N.B. MSc IS students have a directly equivalent compulsory module  G054 Optional for: MA LIS, MA ECP, MA ARM, MA/MSc DH. This module is also available for short course studentsPrerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this module, but participants are assumed to have keyboarding skills and a basic level of computer experience with a PC environment. If in doubt, you are advised to discuss this with the course lecturer before beginning this moduleTaught by: Andy DawsonFurther information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				This course provides a foundation in information science, particularly for those without a formal information background. It serves as an introduction to key concepts of information science, and shows their relationship to professional practice; engages students with issues relating to the application of technology to the information world; and provides a grounding in key aspects of the professional body of knowledge required by CILIP (Chartered Institute of Library and Information Professionals).Learning outcomes: Upon successful completion of this course, you will have an understanding of the key concepts and issues of the academic discipline of information science, and be able to appreciate the relevance and practical application of these concepts and issues to professional information practice This module takes place on Friday afternoons in term 1.Module OutlineThis module is being redesigned for 2013-14 to focus on small group tutorial teaching and the final timetable will not be available until shortly before term commences. However, topics which will be covered will include:Information Science and Theories of InformationUsability and User-Centered DesignInformation Seeking BehaviourKnowledge OrganisationInformation RetrievalInformation Communication models, the publication process Information Society and Information EconomicsInformation Quality, trust and ethicsPreliminary Reading:Bawden, D. & Robinson, L. Introduction to Information Science. Facet, 2012Gilchrist, A. (ed) Information Science in transition. London: Facet, 2009Nicholas, D. & Rowlands, I. (eds) Digital consumers : reshaping the information professions. London : Facet, 2008Svenonius, E. The intellectual foundation of information organization. London : MIT Press, 2000Krug, S. Don't make me think! A commonsense approach to web usability 2nd ed. Berkeley: New Riders, 2006Norman, D. The design of everyday things. Basic books, 2002 (2013 revised ed. in press)Assessment: Assessment by coursework and exam.Compulsory for: MSc IS Optional for: none - see instead the content equivalent module G053Prerequisites: None.Taught by: Andy DawsonFurther information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				This module introduces sales, marketing and promotional technoques and skills within modern print and digital publishing. It outlines how books and digital publications are sold, how sales channels are defined and actualised, how logistical systems operate and how the retail and wholesale sectors work. It discusses marketing theory and application and the role of promotion, advertising and social media applications.Assessment: Assessment by coursework onlyPrerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this moduleCompulsory for: MA PublishingModule leader: Nick Canty
				    Information Studies
				    
				This course will run on Fridays in Term 2 in 2016-17 (2pm-5pm), the tutor will be Andrew Flinn and the teaching room will be Foster Court G031 unless otherwise stated. This course provides an overview of the theory and practice of oral history from creation to curation for historians, social scientists, archivists, librarians, museum curators and all others interested in creating oral histories or tasked with looking after oral history materials. Thematically the course breaks down into six components:1. the historiography, varieties and applications of oral history;2. the ethics of oral history and similar qualitative research methods;3. planning and managing an oral history project;4. conducting successful interviews;5. after the interview – analyzing and using oral history in public, academic and other spheres, including consideration of use in the digital space;6. curation and the oral history archive – cataloguing and preserving oral history collections in digital environments.By the end of the course students should:· understand and be able to demonstrate the benefits and challenges of conducting oral history interviews; · have a sound knowledge of the history of oral history and the variety of applications and techniques; · be able to plan and accomplish a successful oral history project; · understand the important role that oral history can play within wider history projects such as family, organisational, community or elite histories; · be aware of ethical challenges faced by oral historians before, during, and after the interview, and the approaches by which these challenges can be met; · have read widely and critically about oral history using journals, books and online materials; · have arranged, prepared, recorded, documented, and archived at least three interviews (or one extended life history interview); · be aware of the range of recording technologies and formats available to oral historians and some of challenges they pose; · explore the range of possibilities for transcribing, analyzing and using oral history materials in digital environments;· understand the importance of documentation within the oral history project for cataloguing and future use;· have an understanding of the different challenges involved in the preservation of oral history materials; · have explored the significant impact of the internet and digital formats for the use of and access to oral history; · be aware of a range of international oral history projects, institutions and associations. An indication of the structure and more detailed content of the module is given below (this is subject to change):Week 1 - Introduction and course overview. An introduction to Oral History and interviewingWeek 2 – The historiography of oral history and what makes oral history different? Week 3 – Planning an oral history projectWeek 4 – Interviewing: theory & practice (1). Preparing for and carrying out an oral history interview and projectWeek 5 – Interviewing: theory & practice (2). Class evaluation and reflections on practice interviewsWeek 7 – After the interview (1) Preparing for useWeek 8 – After the interview (2) Ethics, Transcription & Preservation in digital environments Week 9 - After the interview (3) Using oral history in a digital age. Future directions and challenges for oral history.Oral History is best understood through practice and doing. Although there will be elements of lecturing and more theoretical material, class discussions, collaborative working, visits and guest lecturers as well as actual interviewing experience and reflection will all contribute to the teaching and learning experience. The class will be expected to reflect critically and sensitively on each other’s practice interviews so that all may learn and improve their interviewing technique. Students are strongly encouraged to integrate their interview practice with the more theoretical and methodological approaches found in their reading. The assessment exercise is focused on the planning, carrying out and management of a small, practical oral history project.Taught by: Andrew Flinn This module is optional for all postgraduate students in the Department of Information Studies as well as students from other departments (with the agreement of their Home Department and the module tutor). This module is also available for short course studentsPrerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this module.Preliminary reading: It is not essential for students to read these or other texts before starting the module, although a little preliminary reading before the module begins can often be beneficial. All the following books can be found in the UCL library.Abrams, Lynn, Oral History Theory, Routledge (2010 or 2nd edition 2106) Perks, Robert and Alistair Thomson. The Oral History Reader 2nd edition. London: Routledge, 2006. (or 3rd edition, late 2015)Ritchie, Donald B. Doing Oral History. Oxford, OUP, 2003 (or 3rd edition, 2014)Thompson, Paul The Voice of the past: Oral History, Oxford, OUP 2000 Yow, Valerie Raleigh. Recording Oral History: A Guide for the Humanities and Social Sciences. 2nd ed. Walnut Creek, CA: Alta Mira, 2005 (or 3rd edition, 2014)The following websites have a wealth of useful materials for anyone interested in oral history theory and practice:Oral History SocietyOral History in the Digital AgeFurther information for students currently taking this module 
				    Information Studies
				    
				Term 1 and 2 core module for MA in Archives and Records Management students. This overarching module, running across terms one and two is intended to provide students with the necessary contextual and conceptual frameworks to fully understand the challenges of managing archives and records in hybrid and digital environments. It is intended that this module will provide the ‘concepts and contexts’ that will frame the other more applied modules in the programme that are taught alongside this module. The module will introduce students to the key terms and concepts relevant to developing an understanding of the discipline of archives and records management in a digital age, exploring the political, social, economic and legal contexts in which archives and record managers operate, identify significant continuities and changes in professional conceptual thinking and practice and give consideration of questions of professional identity, ethics and practice in a digital age. Among the topics to be included are conceptual and theoretical models relating to the management of archives and records, professional terminology and definitions, the spectrum of digital knowledge and information management and the place of archives and records management within that spectrum, legislative frameworks and access to information rights, organizational, community and personal approaches to record keeping, digital convergences and the challenges of digital preservation and stewardship, and the utility of participatory, collaborative and non-custodial approaches in supplementing traditional professional practices in managing archives and records.This module will be delivered across both term 1 and term 2 through a combination of lectures (60 – 90 minutes per week), small group seminar teaching (2 hours every fortnight), individual and group directed study, attendance at visits and other relevant learning events, and participation in online discussions. Module readings, course materials, online discussions and other resources will be conducted through Moodle.At end of the module students will:This module will taught on Fridays am (lectures) and pm (seminars)Session by session (draft):Preliminary reading: It is not essential for students to read these or other texts before starting the module, although a little preliminary reading before the module begins can often be beneficial.Louise Craven, ‘From the Archivist’s Cardigan to the Very Dead Sheep: What are archives? What are archivists? What do they do?’, in What are archives?: cultural and theoretical perspectives : a reader, edited by L. Craven, Ashgate 2008Kate Cummings, 'Ways of seeing: contextualising the continuum', Records Management Journal 2010 20:1Eric Ketelaar, 'Cultivating archives: meanings and identities', Archival Science, (2012) 12:19–33Laura Millar, Archives: Principles and Practices. Facet 2010.This module will be taught by Jenny Bunn, Andrew Flinn, Anna Sexton, Elizabeth Shepherd Further details on this module can be found here
				    Information Studies
				    
				Curation and Stewardship deals with the issues and activities involved in maintaining authentic and usable records over time and through change. It aims to enable students to build a clear appreciation of the vulnerability of the physical and virtual record, and to develop the knowledge and skills to ensure that such records are maintained and that the risks to them are properly addressed and managed. To this end, students should, by the end of the module, be able to;An indication of the structure and more detailed content of the module is given below;The method of delivery will be mixed, involving lectures, class discussion, practical sessions and seminars. There is also a two-week work placement attached to this module, which takes place at the beginning of term 3. The module is assessed by two pieces of coursework, one to be submitted at the beginning of term 2 and the other following the work placement in term 3. Taught by: Jenny Bunn
 and Jonathan Rhys-Lewis in term 1. Compulsory for: Those registered on the MA in Archives and
 Records Management from 2012-2013 onwards. Optional for: The course is also available for short course 
studentsPrerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites, although some 
familiarity with archives and records management services is assumed.Preliminary reading: It is not essential for students to read these or other texts before starting the module, although a little preliminary reading before the module begins can often be beneficial.Forde, Helen. Preserving Archives. London: Facet, 2007.Millar, Laura. Archives: Principles and Practices. London: Facet, 2010.Ritzenthaler, Mary Lynn. Preserving Archives & Manuscripts. Chicago: Society of American Archivists, c2010.The National Archives, Archives and Records - a selection of useful resources.Williams, Caroline. Managing Archives; Foundations, Principles and Practice. Oxford: Chandos, 2006.More detailed reading lists and further information for students currently taking this module 
				    Information Studies
				    
				The module is intended as an introduction to knowledge and logic-based information technologies, using logic programming as the primary example of knowledge-based reasoning, and the Semantic Web as the primary example of a knowledge-based application area.Learning outcomes: By the end of the module, students will have a basic understanding of logic, and the relationship of logic to formal knowledge representation and reasoning. They will have an elementary knowledge of logic programming and be able to write basic programs in Prolog. Students will understand the underlying ideas of Semantic Web and its layered architecture, and will have a basic knowledge of its main technologies including ontology, ontology languages and query languages.Module Structure: The first five sessions focus on Logic Programming, while sessions 6 to 10 focus on the Semantic Web.Assessment: Assessment by coursework onlyOptional for: MA Archives and Records Management, MA Library and Information Studies, MA Publishing, MSc Information Science, MA/MSc Digital Humanities, MA in Electronic Communication & Publishing, MRes in Library, Archive & Information Studies. This module is also available for short course studentsPrerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this moduleTaught by: Rob Miller, Antonis BikakisTimetable: Thursdays 2-5pm in Term 2Essential Reading:Other Reading:Further information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				This module will serve as a practice-led introduction to the digitisation of cultural and heritage materials in the library, archive, museums and galleries sector. It is an advanced level module taught in two ways: theory and principle led lectures and tutorials, and hands on sessions in the computer lab and in the UCLDH Multi-modal digitisation suite (a custom built space for teaching and researching digitization at UCL).  This module will also involve close liaison with UCL Museums and Collections, UCL Library Special Collections, and UCL Media Services to provide practical hands on teaching to understand the technical underpinnings but practical application of digitisation in the cultural and heritage sector.Subjects to be covered include:•	Principles of digitisation•	Handling of objects and documents•	Digitisation studio set up•	Metadata and object information•	Use and Usability of digitised content•	2D versus 3D digitisation•	Funding and costs•	The digitisation lifecycle – from institutional store to digital repository•	Best practice in digitisationOn successful completion of this module students will be able to:1.	Assess objects for digitisation, and understand handling conditions2.	Undertake 2D digitisation of archival material (using SLR and scanner) using best practice principles3.	Be aware of the various 2D and 3D technologies available for digitisation in the cultural and heritage sector4.	Understand the technical underpinnings of digitisation, including capture methods, file formats, compression methods, etc.5.	Understand metadata and preservation issues related to digitisation6.	Understand how and why digitisation technologies have been employed throughout the GLAM sector7.	Understand the technological and financial frameworks which have encouraged the uptake of digitisation8.	Have an awareness of the complete digitisation life cycle, from transportation of object from store, to deposit of digital surrogates in institutional repository (and beyond)9.	Be familiar with key technologies: both hardware and software.Each teaching session consists of a lecture plus at least one other session, which may be a practical, guest lecture, or visit to a resource.Assessment: Assessment by coursework only. A group digitisation project plus written commentary, and individual reflection essay.Compulsory for:  No studentsOptional for: numbers will be limited to 20 students with priority given to those on the MA/MSc in Digital Humanities followed by other DIS students, if numbers allow.Prerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this module.Taught by: Kathryn PiquetteTimetable: Further information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				 N.B. This module will be run for the last time in 2016/17. Digital curation is now mainstream archival practice and the decision has been taken to stop running a separate optional module.   This module is designed as an introduction to the emerging field of digital curation. The working definition used by the course is that digital curation is the activity involved in; focusing and maintaining attention on the need to preserve digital material over the long-term, and planning, managing and undertaking the actions required to make that happen. Consequently to work in digital curation you need to be able to; This course will support you in developing the skills you need to carry out the above. In particular it will allow you to familiarise yourself with; the history of digital curation and how it has emerged as a 'new' area of interest, the current shape of digital curation, and existing practice, tools and techniques in the area. The module is structured as follows; The module will be taught using a mix of independent study/guided reading, lectures, class discussion and practical exercises. It will be assessed by a portfolio of work to be handed in during term 3.Taught by: Jenny Bunn on Wednesdays in term 2. 
 Compulsory for: This course is not compulsory for anyone.  Optional for: The course is available for all postgraduate taught students within the Department of Information Studies. Prerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites, although you will need to be comfortable with technology and have intermediate ICT skills (ability to download and install software).  Preliminary reading: It is not essential for students to read these or other texts before starting the module, although a little preliminary reading before the module begins can often be beneficial.  Brown, Adrian. Practical Digital preservation: a how-to guide for organisations of any size. London: Facet, 2013. Harvey, Ross. Digital curation: a how-to-do-it manual. London: Facet, 2010. Various. Curation Reference Manual. Digital Curation Centre. Any articles that take your fancy from the International Journal of Digital Curation.  More detailed reading lists and further information for students currently taking this module 
				    Information Studies
				    
				This week-long module
at the start of term 1 will serve as an introduction to publishing today,
giving students an immersive experience into the contexts involved so that the
other modules can build on this initial learning and understanding. Topics
covered will  include: an introduction to publishing houses and their
histories; the impact of publishing; publishers as merchants of culture;
selling books; an introduction to basic ethical and legal contexts, professional conduct. Publishing is a fast-moving business, and this
immersive module will ensure all students on the MA
Publishing are fully prepared for the contexts and issues they will encounter
in the other modules on the course. The
module will be team-taught, involving guest speakers from the industry, and
visits to key places of interest. Module Leaders: Dr Daniel Boswell and Jon Newbury
				    Information Studies
				    
				Understanding how you can manipulate, use and re-purpose content in publishing is vital and this module will examine the creative management of content in digital and physical contexts. It will consider how content is managed in different sectors of publishing (education, reference, academic and trade), as well as considering the different technical platforms publishers use such as XML, HTML and EPUB3. Prerequisites: None (Optional Module) Module Tutors: Heather O'Connell and Nick Canty
				    Information Studies
				    
				This module will introduce
students to the processes involved in handling authors and their works. It will include an introduction to publishing
law (contracts, IP and copyright, rights management), as well as looking at the
role of the editor (commissioning) and the agent. Book events and social media management will
also be included.  Assessment: An Author Toolkit (A curated and edited collection of advice and guidance for dealing with authors)  3000 words or equivalentCore Module for: MA PublishingOptional for:  no other programmes at presentPrerequisites:  No pre-requisites neededTaught by: Dr Samantha Rayner
				    Information Studies
				    
				Publishing Skills is designed to give students exposure to key skills areas for publishing, including a working knowledge of the capabilities and uses for core software packages. Classes introduce design concepts across editorial, production and marketing, whilst significant lab time will allow you to explore the available learning materials and practice their creative application.The module will include technical training and self-directed learning in InDesign, Nielsen Bookscan and other relevant publishing software packages. Students will learn about the importance of metadata and challenges in the online world. In addition students will learn about copyediting, and proofreading (including page layout and design).Masterclasses from expert guest speakers will supplement foundational knowledge and introduce additional skills areas or types of software used by publishers.Learning Outcomes:Assessment: A portfolio of skills evidence, and the submission of a reflective report on your learning and development across the module of no more than 3000 words.Terms 1 and 2: Compulsory for students on the MA in Publishing programme.Prerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this module.Module leader: Jon NewburyFurther information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				This module will
introduce you to entrepreneurial practice in business. You will learn about the
skills and approaches needed to successfully implement your own entrepreneurial
ideas and projects, and we will discuss new entrepreneurial enterprises in the field
of contemporary publishing. We will consider core areas of business management
which a successful entrepreneur must be able to negotiate, including publishing
finance, project leadership and relationship management. We will also consider
the legal dimensions of developing properties and brands and, in the second
half of the module, look at some of the practical tools and technologies that
can assist entrepreneurs today.   Compulsory for: Those registered on the
MA in Publishing programme from 2016Prerequisites: There are no formal
prerequisitesAssessment A self-directed
assessment (3000 words or equivalent). Students must conceive of their own
‘case study’ on an aspect of entrepreneurialism as it applies to
publishing. The student must set the key criteria for evaluation of the work
themselves, demonstrating their understanding of topic and objective
interpretation and analysis of essays. The other criteria (representing 50%) of
the work relate to quality of writing and presentation of analysis. Module leader: Daniel Boswell 
				    Information Studies
				    
				The aim of this module is to provide students with historical context and an up to date working knowledge of the academic publishing sector, including current developments. The opportunities for publishers within this area are varied and exciting, providing exposure to cutting-edge ideas and researchers with an international outlook and global importance.Academic publishing, and its supporting services, represents by far the largest and most important area of publishing in terms of revenues and employment. Knowledge sharing continues to expand as research centres in previously closed marketplaces (such as in India, East-Asia and more recently South-America) enter the global market. Books and journals remain the most common forms in which research is disseminated but technological developments are advancing (specifically in the areas of dissemination, metadata and analytics) and where varied types of publisher draw skills, inspiration and business models. It is an area of publishing uniquely drawn into institutional, governmental and international policy-making.This module will run throughout the spring term. Students will be introduced to the core concepts surrounding scholarly communication and dissemination, key stakeholders and operational and strategic requirements of an academic publisher.Topics include: scholarly communication, peer review, process management, "impact" measurement, analytics, discipline variance, open access (OA), financial and business modelling. Some attention will be given to the differences between trade, academic, education and professional publishers. Students will benefit from guest speakers with experience from within industry leading publishing houses across various disciplines.Learning outcomesAssessment: An academic essay or report of no more than 3000 words.Term 2: Optional for students on the MA in Publishing programme.Prerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this module.Module Leader: Jon NewburyFurther information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				This module looks at
the dynamic and challenging contexts of children’s publishing. It will include an introduction to the major
players in each area, including picture books and Young Adult, as well as
sessions on product safety development, merchandising, and digital innovations
via apps, enhanced ebooks and games. 


  Learning Outcomes: Students will gain knowledge and understanding in:•The histories and contexts of children’s publishing•The key players today in children’s publishing•The key developments in children’s publishing•Issues in this area of publishing, including safety procedures, ethical and cultural considerations, marketing and building loyaltyFurther information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				This
module provides publishing students with an insight into the business of creating
content for the schools and higher education market. The course focuses on
issues and debates and students are encouraged to relate what they are learning
to breaking industry news. The module is
taught by Dr Penelope Woolf and there will be a number of leading industry
professionals as guest speakers.· Change: structure of the business; business models· Key opportunities & challenges for the industry
· Publishing skills and employability· The digital transition · New competition· Pace of technological change· From content to services & solutions· What is a publisher?· Government policy & agendas in constant flux.· The development of textbook publishing· Commissioning and exploiting content · Reaching your target market· Key publishers and their strategy· Publishing as a global business· Competition: traditional and non-traditional
(publishers, digital start-ups, Open Educational Resources)· Breaking news e.g. Massive Open Online Courses
(MOOCs), legal cases· Policy e.g. the introduction of a new National
Curriculum in Sept. 2014· HE publishing: from content i.e. textbooks to
service and solutions. What does this mean for the industry? The course will
include case studies and activities. There will be master classes from leading figures from publishing,
digital partners, and a world-renowned textbook author. There will be a
visit to Palgrave Macmillan and the opportunity to meet and interact with publishing
professionals.Assessment: By courseworkOptional for: MA Publishing students  Delivered by: Dr. Penelope Woolf
and guest speakers.
 
				    Information Studies
				    
				The module considers the theory and practice of Information Literacy and associated topics such as Digital Scholarship from a library and information professional viewpoint. The recent history of information literacy (née bibliographic instruction) will provide context for a detailed review of theoretical models and practical approaches using real life examples from the wide information landscape. As the need for librarians to develop their teaching skills gathers apace, pedagogical approaches will be discussed and examined. A range of other skills and attributes (communicator, technician, networker, marketer, researcher) are also required for successful development and delivery of IL and the challenges arising from this will be investigated. This course is designed and taught on the assumption that participants will be able to allocate approximately 3-4 hours of private study to it per week during the weeks in which is it taught, in addition to the 3 hours per week of scheduled lectures, plus extra hours for completion of the assessment.Students taking this optional module will examine in detail the key issues from a professional perspective around information literacy as “Knowing when and why you need information, where to find it, and how to evaluate, use and communicate it in an ethical manner” (CILIP, PKSB, 2012, p.28).Guide programmePreliminary reading - there is no set text for this module. These general texts all contain appropriate materials. You may find them interchangeable and you do not need to read them all. The Introductory chapter of these texts should provide you with a useful initial guide to the subject. For a wide view of current thinking in this area take a look at the Journal of Information Literacy Assessment: Assessment by coursework onlyOptional for: MA Library and Information Studies. This module is also available for short course students. Prerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this module Taught by: Dr Charles InskipFurther information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				The
 module will discuss the theories and concepts associated with the 
publishing function and its associated activities including reading, 
writing, textual criticism and editing, and the dissemination and 
circulation of books and information. The interaction of the book with 
society will be a key theme of the module. ObjectivesModule Leader: Dr Daniel Boswell 
				    Information Studies
				    
				The course is a required module for all new doctoral students 
registered in DIS and for MRes students, with some activities for 
continuing students (years 2, 3 and above). It is designed as a 
foundation for research study in DIS. The course for first year students will be delivered by a weekly face
 to face 2 hour seminar over 2 terms to be held 15.00-17.00, on 
Tuesdays. The course will be facilitated by Elizabeth Shepherd (e.shepherd@ucl.ac.uk), with input from colleagues from across DIS and UCL. There will be regular student-led sessions.Fuller details can be found on the Moodle page, if you are an enrolled student.Doctoral
 students will be asked to present their research progress in class but 
are not required to submit formal coursework for academic credit. MRes 
students may choose this module as one of their assessed modules (15 
credits) and in this case will be asked to submit written coursework in a
 portfolio agreed with the module tutor.
				    Information Studies
				    
				This optional module is now full for the academic year 2017/18.The course considers the theory and practice of Information Governance (IG). IG is an emerging multidisciplinary field which straddles four domains:This module explores the key information governance concepts, theories, standards and models, including their development. Through the critical analysis of these principles students will be provided with strategies and tools for establishing an information governance framework in the workplace to meet legal, regulatory, organisational and societal needs. The course is designed to develop workplace skills for a range of occupations including compliance officers, data managers, information and records managers, information security managers, IT, lawyers, librarians and risk managers. The course consists of 10 weeks of lectures and discussions on Monday afternoons (2-5pm) in term two (commencing January 2017). The course assumes that in addition to attending these lectures participants will be able to allocate approximately 3-4 hours of private study per week during the weeks in which is it taught, plus extra hours for completion of the assessment.By the end of this module students will be able to demonstrate:Module topicsPreliminary reading - there is no set text for this module as this module cuts across disciplines. These texts all contain relevant materials. You may find them interchangeable and you do not need to read them all. Assessment: Assessment by coursework onlyOptional for: DIS students including MA Archives and Records Management, MA Library and Information Studies, , MA/MSc in Digital Humanities, MSc in Information Science (depending upon timetabling), MRes in Information Studies, MA in Library & Information Studies, MA in Publishing . Other UCL Departments: This course is also open to students from other UCL Departments. This module is also available for short course students. Prerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this module Taught by: Dr Elizabeth Lomas For any enquiries please contact e.lomas@ucl.ac.uk 
				    Information Studies
				    
				This module will introduce you to the exciting and varied field of illustrated publishing. Over the course of the module we will look at the past, present and potential futures of Comic Books, reference works (such as cookbooks) and textbook publications. Concepts such as visual language will be considered, as well as some basic design theory and semiotic considerations. Where possible there may also be some visits from industry-based guest speakers.  Formal Prerequisites: noneMust be taken by: Optional module (max 30 spaces)Module Leader: Daniel Boswell 
				    Information Studies
				    
				This module is designed to introduce students to the histories and impacts of booksellers and bookselling on our cultural and intellectual lives. It will look at how the role of the bookseller has shifted over time, from the medieval period through to the present day, and will explore the ways that booksellers trained, organised, and represented themselves. It will look at the rise of the Net Book Agreement, the growth and decline of the bookshop chains, the growing dominance of online retailers and the accompanying resurgence of the independent bookshop. It will also explore the value added activities that booksellers participate in, such as Reading Groups, Literary Festivals, Events, and Readings.  Optional Module - Term 2Prerequisites: There are no formal prerequisitesModule Leader: Dr Samantha Rayner
				    Information Studies
				    
				 This module represents the final research element of the taught Masters' courses.  Learning outcomes: By the end of the module, students will have 
investigated in depth a topic of their choice, learned how to plan and 
execute a research strategy, and understood how to present research 
results  Assessment: Assessment by coursework only  Compulsory for: MA/MSc DH, MA LIS, MA ARM, MA RAMI, MA Publishing, MSc IS  Optional for: This module is also available for short course students Prerequisites: Completion of the taught element of the programme.
  At the discretion of the Programme Director, Diploma students who have
 demonstrated good progress on the taught course may be able to change 
their registration to the Master's degree and undertake the Dissertation
 module
 Taught by: There is no formal teaching for the dissertation. A 
Research Methods one day Boot Camp for all students is held on the first day of reading week in the Spring Term, and 
many aspects of good research practice (literature searching, project 
planning, bibliographic referencing) are embedded in the taught 
programmes Dissertation students are allocated an appropriate supervisor for their 
topic. Students may negotiate with the supervisor the number and form of
 their tutorials, although three is regarded as the 'standard'.  If 
convenient, email may be used as an alternative to face-to-face 
tutorials  Further information for students currently taking this module
                                      URL:
                                      https://www.ucl.ac.uk/dis/study/pg/MAMScDH
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
				    Information Studies
				    
				The Archives and Records Management MA provides the skills and knowledge
 that are needed by new entrants to the profession in the United Kingdom
 and abroad. Students learn to manage and preserve records created in 
the present and those inherited from the past for use in the present and
 future.In 2012-2013 this programme was merged with the MA/Diploma/
Certificate in Records and Archives Management (International) to create a more
digitally aware and internationalised curriculum designed for students from the
UK and overseas who intend to pursue a career in archives or records
management. The
programme focuses on the management of records and archives in a variety of
digital and hard copy formats. Students learn to manage, organise, interpret and
provide access to a wide range of records and archives, focussing on both the
management of records for on-going purposes, and their selection, preservation
and accessibility for future uses including historical research. Archives and records management at UCL is one of the 
longest-established archive education programmes in the English speaking
 world. Taught by leading experts in the field, the programme draws on 
staff's involvement in innovative projects as well as their extensive 
practical experience of archives and records work. Indeed, although the 
programme’s content and structure have changed greatly over the years, 
keeping pace with developments in the archives and records disciplines 
and in information technology, the UCL programme continues to maintain 
the highest standards in the teaching of archival principles and 
practice, as laid down by its founder, Sir Hilary Jenkinson. UCL's teaching and research staff are regular participants 
in innovative projects such as the InterPARES Trust, a multinational 
research project investigating recordkeeping in the Cloud, assoicated 
research on open government and open data; the Community Archives and 
Identities project, which investigated the importance of community 
archives and their role in the production of community identity; and 
other projects which explore collaborative and participatory approaches 
to cultural and heritage practice. Teaching at UCL draws on the staff's 
involvement in leading-edge projects such as these, as well as their 
extensive practical experience of archives and records work, to ensure a
 quality learning experience for all students.  The
programme boasts an impressive range of visiting speakers and frequent
opportunities for structured field visits to study archives and records
management in a wide variety of working environments and
a two week archive work placement, all of which provide unique occasions to
network and create professional links with key players in the industry. London is home to not only a large number of records management services, but also the broadest and finest
grouping of historical archives in any city in the English-speaking world.These modules aim to provide a solid foundation of conceptual knowledge and practical skills. Students' individual interests can be explored in depth through two optional modules.All MA students undertake an independent research project which culminates in a dissertation of 10,000-12,000 words.All Masters/PG Diploma students do a 2-week placement. For more information see the Features tab.The programme is delivered through a combination of lectures, seminars, computer laboratory practicals and classroom practicals, with a strong emphasis on informal teaching and the acquisition of practical skills. Assessment is through a mixture of essays, reports, and practical assignments such as cataloguing and complex problem solving scenarios.The work placement gives students taking the MA/Dip in ARM experience of how the techniques they have learned may be applied in practice. Placements last for two weeks, and are undertaken as part of the INSTG060 Curation and Capture core module just after the beginning of Term 3 (May). We arrange placements individually for each student and do our best to match the placement with their interests and experience. If you are considering hosting a student, please email Jenny Bunn (j.bunn@ucl.ac.uk).The dissertation is only undertaken by students taking the Masters in Archives and Records Management. The purpose of the dissertation is to develop the ability to work at an advanced intellectual level; to encourage sustained effort; to foster critical and analytical thinking; to provide experience in independent investigation and research to allow the student to pursue in depth a topic of personal professional interest; to develop knowledge and skills relevant to that area of practice; to promote the idea of personal professional development and contribution to the corpus of professional and scholarly literature. A Postgraduate Certificate (60 credits, full-time 15 weeks 
or flexible study over a period of up to two years) is offered. The PG 
Certificate comprises four taught modules selected by the student in 
consultation with the Programme Director, and is a shorter programme of 
study, which is not accredited by the Archives and Records Association 
and not recognised as a full professional qualification. It is designed 
for those who wish to gain some basic knowledge of archives or records 
management, but are not (currently) intending to take it up as a 
professional career. The academic and work experience entry requirements are similar to those required of the MA/PG Dip in ARM. if you wish to discuss suitability for entry to this programme, please contact the Programme Director. Depending on the modules chosen, the Certificate may be 
completed in approximately a half year of full-time study (late 
September-late January and/or early January-early June). Applicants to the PG Cert apply in the normal way: you may 
choose to apply online or download application materials; for details 
visit www.ucl.ac.uk/gradappsIn term time, classes are held in the morning (10:00-1:00) or afternoon 
(2:00-5:00). In addition, time should be allowed for private study and 
for completion of coursework. Classes are normally held on UCL's main 
site in Gower Street, London WC1; field visits and practical sessions 
may involve travel to other central London locations. There is a two-week practical placement in late April or early May.Full-time study for the MA requires a calendar year (September-September), with the summer months being occupied by work on the MA dissertation. Students studying part-time over 2 years,
attending on average two days per week, depending on which modules are selected per year/term.Distance learning courses are not offered at this time at UCL, but modular attendance  is available for 
the MA/PG Diploma in Archives and Records Management. Modular students have between 2-5 years to complete the programme. In their first year modular students start off by taking the core module G059 Concepts
and Contexts which is a double module. Generally, after that modular students will take another core module
such as G060 Curation and Stewardship or G032 Records
Management, plus one optional module. The downloadable timetable below will give you an idea of the order of the programme.Depending on the modules chosen, the Certificate may be completed in approximately a half year of full-time study (late September-late January or early January-early June), or may be taken more gradually over nine months (late September-early June).The timetable provided serves only as a guide. Final timetables are made available at enrolment.Download a sample timetable.Academic: A minimum of an upper second-class Bachelor's degree in a relevant discipline from a UK university or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard. Work experience: A significant period of paid or voluntary employment in an archive or records service, or in a post with management responsibility for archives or records.   Some applicants take paid work at pre-professional level; others obtain
some or all of their experience on a voluntary basis. The Forum for Archives
and Records Management Education and Research (FARMER), of which UCL is a
member, has published guidance for applicants seeking work experience in
archives and records management.  Suitable posts are often advertised on the archives-nra listserv which
anyone can join free of charge. The Archives and Records Association may also
be able to put applicants in touch with employers offering suitable short-term
vacancies. The National Archives (TNA) in London offers 2 nationally-available bursaries are
designed to address the socio-economic barriers that exist for some who are
considering entering into the archives sector. English language proficiency: The programme is taught in English. Applications from any country in the world are welcomed, provided the applicant has an acceptable command of the English language. Please view details about UCL’s English language proficiency requirement.APL may be considered for advanced entry to a
 UCL taught programme where a student has already 
completed certified learning of a UCL
 programme e.g. a student who has completed a UCL PG Diploma and wishes to 
enrol on a UCL Masters. Please view details about UCL's Accredited Prior Learning Scheme. Students are advised to apply as early as possible due 
to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding 
(particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application 
deadlines. Deadlines: The initial deadline for applications is 12 January 2018. Applications received by 12 January 2018 will be 
considered for interview in February/March and the majority of the 
places on the programme will be filled following these interviews. Later
 applications (especially from overseas applicants) may be considered 
until 30 June in the year for which entry is sought, but at this stage 
fewer places are likely to be available and places cannot be guaranteed.Required documentation: Applicants should provide two references,
which will normally include an academic reference and a reference from your
current employer (i.e. your line manager or similar). A transcript of results
from your previous academic institution should also be included. It is usually
possible to obtain confirmation of your results, even if you graduated some
years ago.
 

Online applications will not usually be processed until they are complete i.e.
the necessary documents are all uploaded.
 
  The programme is open to all candicates who meet the 
entry requirements and are interested in a career in archives and 
records management. The MA/Postgraduate Diploma provides a foundation 
education for graduates who are seeking to enter the profession of 
archivist/records manager, and is accredited by the Archives and Records
 Association.  The Postgraduate Certificate is a programme with some 
professional elements, but is not wide-ranging enough for recognition as
 a professional qualification. When we assess your application we would like to learn:Processing applications

Your application will initially be dealt with by the UCL Registry, and then
passed to the Department where it will be checked. You will be told that your
papers have been received, and are being processed. At this stage you may be
asked to provide further information, or to clarify any ambiguities; this
doesn't mean that there is a problem with the application.
 

Contact with applicants is usually via email, so be sure that your account
details are current and correct, and that you check the account regularly. Please
feel free to email us with any queries or problems you may have.  Interviews

UCL:DIS has a policy of interviewing all suitably qualified applicants, either
in person or via Skype and no-one is offered a place without interview. The
main block of interviews takes place in mid-February.
However, if places are still available afer these interviews, we will continue to invite suitably qualified
applicants as and when applications are received. Interview candidates will normally be seen by two members of
staff, and the interview, which lasts about 30 minutes, is relatively informal.
You won't be expected to give a presentation.   Most candidates will apply for either
full-time or part-time study. If you are not sure which you want, please
mention this at interview. Letting you know the outcome

The main block of interviewees will be told the outcome of their interviews in
March. Anyone interviewed after the main block timetabled for mid-February will
be told the outcome of their interview 3-4 weeks after their interview.  Because UCL is a popular university we
usually have more applicants than places, and unfortunately even well qualified
candidates may be disappointed. We seldom turn anyone down because there is
'something wrong' with the application, but usually simply because there is too
large a number of good potential students. We take into account a combination
of academic achievement, work experience, and performance at interview, with
none of these being more important than the others.  Successful candidates
will be sent further information during the course of the summer, and you
should also watch the Departmental website.   You can change to part-time study at any time before the
start of the programme.   UCL offers different types of
accommodation to suit different students' requirements: there are halls of
residence, student houses and intercollegiate halls. Information about applying
for accommodation is available on the website of the UCL student residence
office. Students are also free to make their own accommodation arrangements,
but are recommended to live within easy travelling distance of UCL. If you are
offered a place at DIS, it will be important to arrange accommodation before
you arrive in London.   International applicants that are
offered a place at UCL:DIS, should familiarize themselves with the information
UCL provides to help international
students with arriving, living and studying in London, especially any visa requirements.Students often take casual jobs at evenings or
weekends to provide a small supplement to their income. Full-time students
often undertake casual paid employment at evenings or weekends, but full-time
study cannot be combined with a part-time job.What follows is supplementary to UCL's information on Fees, Costs and Funding,
 and should not be considered without reference to that first. To search
 for details of programme specific tuition fees, follow the relevant 
links to the tuition fees table and search by 'Programme Title'.The UK government has introduced student
loans from 2016/17. Full details are available on https://www.gov.uk/funding-for-postgraduate-study. Loan applications,
eligibility, queries and decisions will be dealt with directly by the
government, not by UCL.  One scholarship is available for prospective students on the MA in Archives and Records Management. Value £1,000.Deadline There is no separate scholarship application procedure.Application and Information There is no separate scholarship application procedure or 
form. All eligible applicants for the programme will be considered for 
the award of this scholarship.  Awards will be announced in September. For further information, email: infostudies-enquiries@ucl.ac.uk The National Archives is offering a small number of nationally-available bursaries. These bursaries are designed to address the socio-economic barriers that exist for some who are considering entering into the archives sector.Scottish applicants may also be eligible for an award from the Student Awards Agency for Scotland.UCL does not offer any scholarships to international students on UCL:DIS taught Masters programmes. Many of our international students are successful in obtaining a grant from their home government or from funders such as the British Council.  UCL has a small number of scholarships (details on the Funding Options for Graduate Students webpages) but again, these are likely only to be awarded to students of exceptional academic ability.Most students are self-financing, relying on savings or career development
loans. Part-time work is fairly readily available
in London, and most full-time students can find something that fits in with the
course.The MA and Diploma are accredited by the Archives and Records Association and are widely recognised by employers throughout the UK as entry-level professional qualifications. Places of employment of recent students include: The
programme delivered by internationally recognised and research active staff
prepares students to work in a wide variety of traditional and non-traditional
archives and informational management roles in organisations in both the
private and public sectors, in the UK and internationally. Students benefit from the Department of Information Studies' excellent links
with employers in the information professions which provide them with 'real
life' experience through guest lectures, visits and a two-week work placement.
As part of the programme students also receive specific careers advice,
including how to construct CVs. In the longer term the programme equips
students with the skills and knowledge to have long and successful careers in
their chosen field and become leaders in their profession.Programme Director:  Core Teaching staff include: 
 A variety of other teaching staff from
across the profession will also teach on the programme, depending on modules
chosen, and the proposed dissertation topic.  Admissions enquiries:Laura Keshav Tel: +44 (20)7679 7204Email: l.keshav@ucl.ac.uk
				    Information Studies
				    
				Sorry, this Silva Document is not viewable.Sorry, this Silva Document is not viewable.
				    Information Studies
				    
				Sorry, this Silva Document is not viewable.
				    Information Studies
				    
				Why study this programme?The MSc in Information Science prepares students for management roles in the information industries with an emphasis on technology: for example information systems manager, systems librarian, web manager, information architect, knowledge manager, data manager, or indeed any information management role. Our graduates find work all over the world with electronic systems for managing, retrieving, distributing and archiving vast quantities of information.The programme is suitable for:The programme includes both practical and theoretical work in which students develop a deeper understanding of not just the technologies themselves but also the implications of applying and managing these technologies in varied information environments. Its high levels of optionality allow students to tailor the programme to fit their individual needs, both in terms of content and study time.A typical student?Our students come from a very wide range of backgrounds, and a typical student is very hard to define. Many are already working in libraries, records centres, archives or other information units, and wish to deepen their knowledge of technical issues, undertake professional development, or gain a formal qualification to enhance their career prospects. Others increasingly come from a more computing-oriented background and want to specialise in the information fields and develop their information and management skills. Others may already be experts in niche areas but are looking to gain a broader range of expertise.As a result we have a very diverse student body, with ages ranging from the early 20s to mid 50s and a good mixture of UK, EU and overseas students. One of the tenets of the programme is that students should learn from each other as well as from the faculty, and benefit greatly from sharing their ideas and experience with each other.Entry requirementsThe standard UCL entrance requirements for postgraduate programmes will normally apply (a second class honours degree from a UK university or equivalent). However, relevant work experience is also taken into account, when the applicant already works in the industry. Candidates should normally be able to demonstrate experience of, or hold an existing qualification in, either an information or computing discipline.Programme StructureThe MSc Information Science programme may lead to one of three qualifications: an MSc, a Postgraduate Diploma, or a Postgraduate Certificate. Candidates for both the MSc and the Postgraduate Diploma complete eight taught modules, each worth 15 credits. MSc candidates must also complete a dissertation of 10,000-12,000 words, worth a further 60 credits. A distinction may be awarded for outstanding performance in the MSc. For the Postgraduate Certificate, candidates complete a shorter programme of any four agreed modules.Full-time: one calendar year (twelve months)Modular:Two to five calendar yearsFull-time: one academic year (nine months)Modular: two to five academic yearsModular: from one term to two yearsIt is also possible to attend single modules as a short course student for the purposes of continuing professional development.Programme ContentFor the MSc and Diploma, students study the following modules:Foundation module:Students must undertake the foundation module:INSTG054: Fundamentals of Information Science An introduction to a wide range of fundamental issues including aspects and principles of information theory, analysis, organisation, retrieval, management and science, Compulsory Modules:INSTG017: Internet TechnologiesCovers specifically web-related topic areas such as markup languages, website structuring and design, and dynamic generation and delivery of content, including the use of SQL and web database integration.INSTG018: Introduction to programming and database queryingIntroduces fundamental principles of procedural computer programming and database querying, reinforced by practical work in the context of automated web browser and document manipulation.INSTG007: Database systems analysis and designLooks at how common systems analysis and design methodologies are used in the context of developing computer-based information systems, including related areas such as needs analysis and data investigation.INSTG035: Systems ManagementInvestigates a wide range of topics and issues relating to computer systems management and operation, including project management, systems migration, data security, maintenance, user support, and many other systems management tasks.Optional modules:Students select three optional modules: common choices includeMSc dissertation projectIn addition, MSc students will undertake their own research, guided by an expert tutor, into a specific aspect of information technology and its application. This dissertation will form an integral part of the learning experience as well as making a major contribution to the collective research effort of DIS. The best dissertations may form the basis for a publication in a scholarly journal or a presentation at an academic conference. Students with connections to a sponsoring organisation (particularly modular students on day release) often undertake projects of direct relevance and benefit to their sponsoring organisation or place of work.ApplicationsPlease note that we DO NOT accept applications from agencies and we will not communicate with an agent regarding your application. We expect all applicants to complete their applications themselves.Application deadline: Normally 1 July in the year of entry, although late applications may be considered up to 1 August. To apply, please complete an application form, available from www.ucl.ac.uk/prospective-students/graduate-study/application-admissionApplications for short course attendance will be considered at any time.CILIPThis well established programme is accredited by CILIP (to May
2019).
				    Information Studies
				    
				Sorry, this Silva Document is not viewable.
				    Information Studies
				    
				The Master's degree in Digital Humanities at UCL draws together teaching from a wide range of disciplines, to investigate the application of computational technologies to the arts, humanities, and cultural heritage.The MA/MSc in Digital
Humanities is a truly interdisciplinary programme and has strong teaching links with other Departments, Schools and Faculties in UCL: The programme also draws on facilities offered by:      as well as liaising closely with a variety of
world-class, London based libraries, archives, and museums within the
vicinity of UCL.The MA/MSc in Digital Humanities provides research-led teaching delivered by leading 
scholars in the field.The Master's in Digital Humanities is an innovative, exciting and groundbreaking programme while at the same time being demanding and challenging with rigorous academic standards.  Digital Humanities is an
important multidisciplinary field, undertaking research at the intersection of
digital technologies and humanities. It aims to produce applications and models
that make possible new kinds of research, both in the humanities disciplines
and in computer science and its allied technologies. It also studies the impact
of these techniques on cultural heritage, memory institutions, libraries,
archives and digital culture.We welcome students from a wide variety of backgrounds; some come to us straight from undergraduate degrees while others already have postgraduate qualifications or may have had many years of professional work experience. Most have a solid humanities background but many come to us from the social and computer sciences. All are welcome and the variety enriches the programme by its diversity. The important thing is a willingness to learn new things and to take on fresh challenges.Through our programme, students develop an advanced
understanding of digital resources and computational methods relevant to
research and practice in the humanities and cultural heritage sectors; these include XML, databases, internet technologies and image capture. They are
equipped with technical and design skills, such as text markup, web page design
and database construction.As well as discipline specific skills we have a strong commitment to developing research skills and the ability to critically evaluate material from a wide variety of sources. In addition we encourage students to challenge their assumptions and be open to new ideas and new ways of thinking. Communication skills are developed through class and seminar discussion with students taking an active role. Team working and networking are equally important and fostered by collaborative learning and the sharing of thoughts and ideas. Students benefit from
research-led teaching delivered by leading scholars in these fields and the
excellent range of facilities we have available, including the UCL Library Special Collections, UCL Museums and Collections and the UCLDH Multi-Modal Digitisation Suite. London is an international hub for the study of Digital Humanities with a wide range of research seminars and events at UCL and beyond. Our
students have an ideal base at UCL to take advantage of our collaboration
with London's many internationally important cultural heritage institutions,
including the British Museum and the British Library as well as a wide range of research institutes and the University of London's Schools of Advanced Study.   Master's students take modules to
the value of 180 credits: five core modules and three optional modules (15 credits each), a research dissertation (60
credits) and a work placement.A
Postgraduate Diploma (120 credits) is offered where students undertake 5 core modules and 3 optional
modules (15 credits each).A
Postgraduate Certificate (60 credits) is also offered where students undertake 4 modules by agreement with the Programme Director.Note that the technical core modules are all at entry level; for 
students that already have demonstrable competencies in these areas, it 
may be possible, subject to the agreement of the Programme Director, to 
substitute modules from other UCL departments.There are a wide range of taught optional modules to chose form; these are all subject to availability and timetabling.This is for coursework assignments, exams and the Workplacement Module which is a mandatory requirement for all full-time students.   All MA/MSc students undertake
an independent research project with the support of a supervisor which culminates in a dissertation (60 credits) of 10,000-12,000 words. The work placement and dissertation are important features of the MA/MSc Digital Humanities programme. One of the most exciting aspects of the MA/MSc in Digital Humanities 
is the student's work placement with a museum, library, gallery, archive, new 
media company, publishing house or other similar organisation.  All full-time students must complete a placement, usually in Term 3 or
during the early summer.The object of the placement is to introduce students to working practices and situations in digital humanities projects and 
contexts. The placement is the culmination of theoretical study and 
practical instruction. Following their placements, all students are required to write a 
short reflective piece focusing on the time that they spent with the host 
organisation, what they learned from being there and what they were able to 
bring to the placement.  Placements on our programme have been hosted by various companies and 
institutions as well as with UCLDH projects and the many UCL Museums and Collections; The British Museum, The Science Museum, The British 
Library, The Petrie Museum, School of Oriental and African Studies, UCL Web 
Development Office, UCL Art Museum, The Wellcome Trust, UCL Communications, Eastman 
Dental Hospital, UCL Library, Jisc, LanguageLab, The National Theatre, Ubiquity 
Press, British Film Institute, Museum of London, Islington Museum, Quip, Digital 
Artist, Centre for eResearch. The dissertation is a major piece of work (usually between 10,000 and 12,000 words in length) undertaken by the 
individual student under the guidance of a supervisor. UCLDH are pleased to announce the Stephen Robertson prize for the 
best dissertation in the UCL MA/MSc in Digital Humanities, sponsored 
by Microsoft. The first recipient of the £500 prize will be named from the 
finishing cohort of UCL Digital Humanities MA/MSc students in November 
2014, and the prize will continue for 5 years in the first instance. We 
thank Microsoft, and Stephen Robertson, for their generosity. More details are on the UCLDH blog. The topic needs to be one that can be covered adequately within the 
time and space allowed, and for which the Department can provide adequate 
supervision. Our staff have many and diverse research interests which can be used to support dissertation supervision. Continuing Professional Development and Short CoursesIn addition to the full Master's programme, the 
following short courses in Digital Humanities are also offered by the 
department. This is a very flexible programme for anyone looking to 
extend their skill set, particularly for CPD. Students registered for 
the Certificate must complete four modules from our DH core and options 
list as agreed with the Programme Director. The length of time taken 
depends on the student's circumstances (they may be working full-time or
 using this programme to complement other studies) and can range from a 
single term to a maximum of two years.     The course unit value is 60 credits or 24 ECTS which are transferable in the UK and EU. Application is through the UCL portal and the fees are pro-rata (by credits) depending on those for the full Master's programme.  Again this is a very flexible programme with students 
taking all five core modules from the full Master's programme and a 
further three from the optional modules list. Diploma students do not 
take the workplacement or dissertation modules. This can be completed 
full-time over nine months or by flexible study over two to five years. The course unit value is 120 credits or 48 ECTS which are transferable in the UK and EU.  Under the current UCL regulations for the Accreditation of 
Prior Learning (APL) credit transfer, a student who has already 
completed a PG Diploma and then applies for the Master’s programme will 
receive APL of 120 credits; this means that students holding a Diploma 
in DH would only need to complete the Dissertation to receive the full 
Master's degree.  Application is through the UCL portal and the fees are pro-rata (by credits) depending on those for the full Master's programme.  If you are currently enrolled at another institution it may
 be possible for you to study at our department to complement your work.
 Students usually come for one term and with this scheme,
 although it is not possible to receive a UCL qualification, it is 
usually possible to count credit taken here towards the degree in the 
home institution. This would need to be confirmed with the home 
institution first.            Many of the modules that are offered by the Department of Information Studies as part of the MA/MSc in Digital Humanities programme work as stand-alone short courses for those wishing to update their professional skills in a particular area. The modules are taught over one term, usually for one 
morning or one afternoon per week with 30 taught hours of lectures and 
practicals, followed by a coursework assessment or exam (which is 
optional for short course students). If the assessment is completed 
successfully, the module credit can count towards a future Master's 
degree. Many of these modules are CILIP accredited and so suitable for CPD for Library and Information professionals.          DH modules currently offered as Short Courses include: Digital Resources in the HumanitiesElectronic PublishingInternet TechnologiesIntroduction to Programming Legal and Social Aspects of Electronic PublishingSever Programming and Structured DataXMLAcceptance
 onto the module is by agreement by the tutor.  Many other modules from 
taught programmes offered by UCL Department of Information Studies (DIS)
 are available as short courses. Details about fees and how to apply are also available on that page.  
     Modules are usually taught over one term. Any exceptions will be clearly shown on final timetables.   Classes are held in the morning (10:00-13:00) 
or afternoon (14:00-17:00); generally for 10 weeks. These may also include field trips to outside institutions or resources. In addition, sufficient time must be set aside for preparing for classes, 
private study and for the completion of coursework assignments.  Term Dates: 2017-2018Timetable: Sample core module timetable.Students will also be able to see all their own modules on the UCL online teaching timetable, once they have completed module registration.Listings for the times and availability of optional modules are distributed to all students at Induction.  Academic: applicants
need to have a First or Upper Second-Class Honours degree in
a relevant Humanities or Computing discipline from a UK university,
or an  overseas qualification of an equivalent standard.  English language proficiency: the English Language Proficiency Requirement
 for all non-native English speakers is a minimum of an IELTS 7.0 with no less than 6.5 in each sub-set.UCL Pre-sessional English courses: these courses are recommended to introduce non-native students to the UK academic and social culture as well as to improve written and spoken English. However, attendance on these courses does NOT guarantee that you will be accepted onto the programme; applicants should ensure that they meet the required academic and language requirements before coming to UCL for a pre-sessional course. APL may be considered for advanced entry to a
 UCL taught programme where a student has already 
completed certified learning of a UCL
 programme e.g. a student who has completed a UCL PG Diploma and wishes to 
enrol on a UCL Masters. Please view details about UCL's Accredited Prior Learning Scheme.  Apply online via the UCL applications portal.  Before doing this you should check the UCL Applications guidelines for taught programmes. Note that we DO NOT accept applications from agencies and
 we will not communicate with an agent regarding your application. We 
expect all applicants to complete their applications themselves Deadlines: you may apply at any time and are encouraged to apply early; UCL Admissions will not accept applications after 1st August.   The programme
is suitable for students with an undergraduate degree in a wide variety
subjects. It allows students with a background in the humanities to acquire
necessarily skills in digital technologies, and enables those with a technical
background to become informed about scholarly methods in the humanities. The important thing is to be open to new challenges and willing to learn new ways of interpreting the world around us.   When we
assess your application we would like you to tell us   Together with essential academic requirements,
the personal statement is your opportunity to demonstrate your suitability for
the programme. Your application will be processed and you will be informed of the outcome or contacted if any additional information is needed. Contact with applicants is by email, so be sure that your account
details are current and correct.  Successful applicants will be sent further information
during the course of the summer, and you should also watch the Departmental
website. See also the UCL pages about Student Accommodation.Fees: 2017-2018 sessionMA/MSc               UK/EU students: £9,290Overseas students: £20,005pro-rata        pro-rata depending on the number of credits taken per year.  details are on the UCL Fee Schedule: Postgraduate Taught 2017-2018                 For details of funding opportunities, see UCL Scholarships and Funding.New UK Government Postgraduate Loans Scheme – 2016/17The UK government has confirmed its commitment to student
loans for 2016/17. Full details will be made available on www.gov.uk from January 2016. Loan applications,
eligibility, queries and decisions will be dealt with directly by the
government, not by UCL. However, currently the expectation is that the following key
details to be included in the loan scheme:The MA/MSc in Digital Humanities is a unique, innovative and groundbreaking programme which gives students the skills that they and 
employers tell us they need. Our students receive a unique blend of 
practical and theoretical skills that are in great demand. The work placement gives
 students the opportunity to put into practice what they have learnt 
together with gaining experience of the workplace in this fast moving 
environment.The cultural heritage sector is increasingly aware of the 
need to provide and manage digital content. The British Library, The 
National Archives, and many museums are investing heavily in web 
delivered content. Graduates of this programme will be well placed 
for further research or a career in this fast growing field. In addition, our graduates are also well placed to take up positions in project management roles and indeed any that focus on 
collaborative, innovative and creative thinking. Our graduates have found employment in organisations such as the British Museum, Oxford University, UNESCO; in roles as diverse as Web Editor, Chief Operating Officer, Senior Digital Marketing Executive. Several have also progressed to fully-funded research degrees; others have 
further developed their technical skills and have been recruited as 
programmers and developers for both academic and commercial projects.Recent career destinations include:Programme Director:Academic enquiries should go to the Programme Director, Julianne Nyhan Core Teaching staff: 
Julianne Nyhan  Admissions enquiries:Sarah Davenport Tel: +44 (20)7679 7204Email: s.davenport@ucl.ac.uk
				    Information Studies
				    
				The Library and Information Studies MA provides the ideal foundation for
 career progression in library or information work. The programme is 
recognised by the Chartered Institute of Library and Information 
Professionals (CILIP) as a qualification for entry into the profession.In May 2014 the programme was re-accredited by CILIP  for the maximum 5 years, until May 2019, under the new Professional Knowledge Skills Base scheme which forms the criteria against which all UK Library programmes are assessed. The Library and Information Studies
MA provides the ideal foundation for career progression in library or
information work. The one year programme is accredited by the professional
association (CILIP) and offers students a wide range of up-to-date learning opportunities
while helping to develop strong networks designed to enhance their
employability. This well established programme is accredited by CILIP (to May
2019). It brings together an outstanding team of researchers, 
teachers, students, practitioners and information industry leaders to 
understand, develop and shape the emerging information environment while
 elucidating and building on the historical developments that have 
created this environment.Students benefit from UCL's central London location, 
close to major libraries and repositories which house many important 
collections, including the British Library and the Senate House
 Library of the University of London.Cataloguing and classification Managing Collections Supporting Information Users Managing Information Organisations Using Technology in Information Organisations The Library and Information Professional In addition, you choose TWO from the following optional modules:Information LiteracyDatabase systems analysis and design Digital resources in the humanities Electronic publishing (available only to modular students)Historical bibliographyInformation GovernanceKnowledge representation and semantic technologiesManuscript studies Academic and Journals PublishingWe normally try to offer most of the options each year, but we cannot guarantee to offer any individual option. If you particularly want to do something please ask about it. Note: Because part-time students who complete the programme over two years attend on only one day their choice of options is restricted to those available on the part-time days (usually the most popular ones such as Historical Bibliography). Students who can arrange to come on two half days in the relevant term may of course choose other options if they wish.All full-time MA students, and any part time students who wish to, also do a 2-week work placement as part of the Professional Awareness module. For more information, see the 'Features' tab.All MA students undertake an independent research project which culminates in a dissertation of 10,000-12,000 words.The programme is delivered through a combination of lectures, seminars, computer laboratory and classroom practicals, with a strong emphasis on active learning and the acquisition of practical skills. Assessment is through a mixture of essays, reports, examination and practical assignments such as website design and the creation of indexing tools.The work placement is only open to students taking the MA/PG Dip in LIS G030
the Library and Information Professional module.The work placement gives students taking the MA/PG Dip in LIS experience of how
the techniques they have learned may be applied in practice.
Placements last for two weeks, and are undertaken at the beginning of
Term 3. We arrange placements individually for each student and do our best to
match the placement with their interests and experience.If you are considering hosting a student, please email Elizabeth Lomas: e.lomas@ucl.ac.uk.The dissertation is only undertaken by students taking the Masters in Library and Information Studies.The standard timetable starts at the beginning of October each year. Modules are usually taught over one term (term 1: October to
December; term 2: January to March), either 10.00 to 13.00 or 14.00 to 17.00.
Any exceptions will be clearly notified well in advance.In term time, classes are held in the morning (10:00-1:00) 
or afternoon (2:00-5:00). In addition, time should be allowed for 
private study and for completion of coursework. Classes are normally 
held on UCL's main site in Gower Street, London WC1; field visits and 
practical sessions may involve travel to other central London locations.Distance learning courses are not offered at this time at UCL.There is a two-week work placement at the start of Term 3. See 'Features' tab for more information.Students studying part-time over 2 years,
attend on Tuesdays in the first year of study, and on Monday in the second year
of study.Modular students' (3-5 years) attendance
will depend on which modules are selected per year/term.These serve only as a guide. Final timetables are made available at enrolment.
Download this year's timetable full-time students, or download this year's timetable for first year part-time students. Academic: A minimum of an upper second-class Bachelor's degree in a relevant discipline 
from a UK university or an overseas qualification of an equivalent 
standard. Work Experience: A year of full-time employment or its equivalent in a
 recognised library or information service.A
graduate traineeship is best (see the CILIP
website), but other kinds of work, for example, as
a library or information assistant, will often be as good. Casual work in a
library (such as shelving), or administrative support roles (such as
secretarial or financial administration posts) are not usually regarded as
appropriate. Ask if you are unsure whether your experience is enough.
 

We like to have a good mix of students from different sectors and with varied
experience, so even if your background is not conventional you may still be a
good candidate.  English language proficiency: The programme is taught in English. Applications from any 
country in the world are welcomed, provided the applicant has an 
acceptable command of the English language. Please view details about UCL’s English language proficiency requirement.APL may be considered for advanced entry to a
 UCL taught programme where a student has already 
completed certified learning of a UCL
 programme e.g. a student who has completed a UCL PG Diploma and wishes to 
enrol on a UCL Masters. Please view details about UCL's Accredited Prior Learning Scheme.Deadline: The initial deadline for applications is 13 January 2017. Applications received by 13 January 2017 will be 
considered for interview in early 2017 and the majority of the 
places on the programme will be filled following these interviews. Later
 applications will be considered 
until 28 July 2017, but at this stage 
fewer places are likely to be available and places cannot be guaranteed.Required documentation: Applicants should provide two references,
which will normally include an academic reference and a reference from your
current employer (i.e. your line manager or similar). A transcript of results
from your previous academic institution should also be included. It is usually
possible to obtain confirmation of your results, even if you graduated some
years ago.
 

Online applications will not be processed until they are complete i.e.
the necessary documents are all uploaded.
 
  The MA is a broad-based programme, and the skills that 
graduates learn are intended to apply to a wide range of jobs within the
 field of library and information studies. The general framework of the 
programme allows plenty of scope for students to follow their particular
 subject interests. When we assess your application we would like to learn: Processing applications

Online applications will not be processed until they are complete i.e.
the necessary documents are all uploaded. Your application will initially be
dealt with by the UCL Registry, and then assigned to the Department where it will
be checked. You will be told that your application has been received, and is being
processed. At this stage you may be asked to provide further information, or to
clarify any ambiguities; this doesn't mean that there is a problem with the
application. Most candidates will apply for either full-time or part-time
study. If you are not sure which you want, please mention this at interview. This is simply a matter of managing
numbers, and you don't prejudice your application by applying in this way.
 

Contact with applicants is usually via email, so be sure that your account
details are current and correct, and that you check the account regularly.
Please feel free to email us with any queries or problems you may have.
 
 Interviews

UCL:DIS has a policy of interviewing all suitably qualified applicants, and,
except in the case of overseas applicants, no-one is offered a place without
interview. Candidates will be invited for interview in the early part of the
Spring Term, and depending on numbers can go on right through to May. 

You will normally be seen by two members of staff, and the interview, which
lasts about 30 minutes, is relatively informal. You won't be expected to give a
presentation, or anything of that kind. Give yourself enough time to allow for
delays, and to find the Department.
 
 Letting you know the outcome

Because UCL is a popular university we usually
have more applicants than places, and unfortunately even well qualified
candidates may be disappointed. We seldom turn anyone down because there is
'something wrong' with the application, but usually simply because there is too
large a number of good potential students. We take into account a combination
of academic achievement, work experience, and performance at interview, with
none of these being more important than the others.  Successful candidates
will be sent further information during the course of the summer, and you
should also watch the Departmental website.  UCL offers different types of accommodation
to suit different students' requirements: there are halls of residence, student
houses and intercollegiate halls. Information about applying for accommodation
is available on the website of the UCL student residence office. Students are
also free to make their own accommodation arrangements, but are recommended to
live within easy travelling distance of UCL. If you are offered a place at DIS,
it will be important to arrange accommodation before you arrive in London.  Students often take
casual jobs at evenings or weekends to provide a small supplement to their
income. Full-time students often undertake casual paid employment at evenings
or weekends, but full-time study cannot be combined with a part-time job.

Successful candidates will be sent further information during the course of the
summer, and you should also watch the Departmental website.  International applicants that are offered a place at UCL:DIS, should
familiarise themselves with the information UCL provides to help international
students with visas, arriving, living and studying in London. The UK government has introduced student
loans from 2016/17. Full details are available on https://www.gov.uk/funding-for-postgraduate-study. Loan applications,
eligibility, queries and decisions will be dealt with directly by the
government, not by UCL. UCL (details on the UCL Scholarships and Funding webpages) but these are
likely only to be awarded to students of exceptional academic ability.Most students are self-financing, relying on savings or career development
loans. Part-time work (in libraries and elsewhere) is fairly readily available
in London, and most full-time students can find something that fits in with the
course.The MA LIS is fortunate to be one of the programmes that takes part in this scheme. Details are published on the Stationers' Foundation website annually, and eligible applicants are encouraged to apply by the MA LIS Programme Director.Available to a student enrolled or accepted in a graduate school of library and
information science.Prospective candidates should have knowledge of and interest in Jewish
studies, and demonstrate the potential, ability, and intention of pursuing a
career in Judaica librarianship.The Association of Jewish Libraries awards an annual scholarship to a
promising student with a history of participating in Judaic studies or
libraries, accepted into or attending an accredited graduate school of library
and information science. This scholarship is merit-based rather than
needs-based.AJL
membership is not required for eligibility.This
programme provides a professional qualification in Librarianship and Information Studies,
accredited by CILIP: the Chartered Institute of Library and Information
Professionals as a qualification for entry to the professions. Places of employment of recent
students include: As a vocational Masters, the MA LIS prepares students for
employment in the sector, and, in most cases, for promotion from their
pre-library school role as a library assistant to a qualified librarian role,
such as senior library assistant, assistant librarian, librarian or library
manager. Some students choose careers in information provision, such as
taxonomists and web designers. There are specialist employment agencies that
place students in both short-term and permanent positions, so if students do
not find their ideal post straight away, they usually find suitable employment
while continuing to seek their ideal post.Due to a change in the timetable for internal funding awards, we are able to extend our closing date for applications.  Applications for the Diploma or MA programmes may be considered until 28 July 2017, but at this stage fewer places are likely to be available and places cannot be guaranteed.Programme Director:  Core Teaching staff include: 
 A variety of other teaching staff from
across the Department will also deliver parts of the programme, depending on modules
chosen, and the proposed dissertation topic. Some modules include guest lecturers from other institutions and practitioner presentations. Admissions enquiries:Laura KeshavTel: +44 (20)7679 7204Email: l.keshav@ucl.ac.uk
				    Information Studies
				    
				This MA prepares you for a career in the challenging world of 
publishing. Taught by experts and practitioners and with master classes 
from industry leaders, the programme of study includes all the 
knowledge, skills and understanding you need to become a successful 
publisher, including a period of professional placement.From mass-market fiction to scholarly
journals, from editorial to marketing, from e-content management to contracts,
UCL’s MA in Publishing offers comprehensive preparation for entry to the
industryToday's publishing industry needs graduates with both a 
practical insight into how this complex industry functions and a range 
of transferable skills. This is what this course will give you. In 
particular, on successful completion you will be able to apply: Further information is available on how to apply. The Centre for Publishing MA aims to cover a wide spread of
 publishing disciplines, from fiction and trade to professional, 
academic, scholarly and educational. Teaching staff possess a range of 
book trade experience and networks of contacts across all fields in the 
UK and internationally. The aim of the course is to equip you with a clear 
understanding of how the publishing industry works and to give you the 
knowledge, confidence and abilities to move quickly in building a 
successful publishing career. In addition, leading publishers, literary agents, 
authors, legal experts, booksellers and electronic authorities visit the
 course to give lectures and presentations. Students benefit from 
masterclasses from industry leaders on current and controversial issues 
and field visits to retailers, publishers and libraries. Students
 benefit from UCL's central London location. The programme boasts an 
impressive range of visiting speakers and frequent opportunities for 
structured field visits.   Full-time 1 year; Part-time 2-5 yearsTerm One (September - December) Core modules Term Two (January - March) Optional modules, with 
the exception of INSTG068.  NOTE that optional modules will only run if 
 there is a quorate amount of sign-ups, and that UCL reserves the right 
to withdraw any option from year to year.  Check on application if there
 is a particular module you are interested in taking.  Term Three (May - June)  Full-time study for the MA requires a calendar year 
(September-September), with the summer months being occupied by work on 
the MA dissertation. In term time, classes are 
held in the morning (10:00-1:00) or afternoon (2:00-5:00). In addition, 
time should be allowed for private study and for completion of 
coursework. Classes are normally held on UCL's main site in Gower 
Street, London WC1; field visits and practical sessions may involve 
travel to other central London locations. Academic: A minimum of a second-class Bachelor's degree in a relevant discipline from a UK university or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard. Outstanding candidates will exceptionally be considered
if they can offer significant relevant industry experience. For an informal discussion and for advice, please contact Nick Canty.English language proficiency: A very high level of fluency is vital, and international students should
 be aware that this is a demanding course, focussing on publishing in 
the English-speaking world, as it operates within global contexts.  To 
cope with the challenges the course provides, your English must be of an
 excellent standard, and you must understand the need for accuracy and 
good writing style that the publishing industry expects. Please view details about UCL’s English language proficiency requirement.Work experience: Experience in publishing is not regarded as a pre-requisite - any work 
experience that demonstrates good people skills, written communication 
skills, design work, or business sense is useful.  APL may be considered for advanced entry to a
 UCL taught programme where a student has already 
completed certified learning of a UCL
 programme e.g. a student who has completed a UCL PG Diploma and wishes to 
enrol on a UCL Masters. Please view details about UCL's Accredited Prior Learning Scheme.  You may choose to apply online or download application materials; for details visit www.ucl.ac.uk/gradappsDeadlines: The last day of May each year, for entry in the same year. Required documentation: Applicants should
provide two references, of which at least one should be an academic reference.  A transcript of results
from your previous academic institution should also be included. It is usually
possible to obtain confirmation of your results, even if you graduated some
years ago.
 

Online applications will not usually be processed until they are complete i.e.
the necessary documents are all uploaded.
 
   When we assess your application we would like to learn:
Your personal statement should tell us something about your
 ambitions, and what you like to read.  Don't just tell us you love 
reading -- everyone says that! -- but be specific.  What genres?  What 
bestsellers?  We are also looking for people who are genuinely 
interested in the industry  - there are plenty of free newsfeeds out 
there, so show us what you follow, and the trends and news items in 
publishing that you are aware of.  You don't need to know exactly what 
company you want to work for, or what job role - but we need to see you 
are keen to learn about the whole process of publishing, and open to 
engaging with challenging individual and group work tasks. Our professional contacts and contexts are crucial parts of
 the course - and your future working environments.  We are looking for 
people we feel can work professionally, often under pressure, and 
represent themselves - and UCL - in a positive light.  We are very proud
 of our graduates, who have helped build the course's reputation for 
excellence, and who now work for publishers all over the world, in big 
companies, in small ones - and in ones they have started themselves.Being a part of the UCL MA in Publishing is to be part of a supportive, 
dynamic, creative, and full programme - if this sounds appealing to you,
 then we look forward to receiving your application! Processing
applications: Your
application will initially be dealt with by the UCL Graduate Admissions Office, and then assigned to the Department where it will be checked. You will be told that your papers
have been received, and are being considered. At this stage you may be asked to
provide further information, or to clarify any ambiguities; this doesn't mean
that there is a problem with the application. Contact with
applicants is usually via email, so be sure that your account details are
current and correct, and that you check the account regularly. Please feel free
to email us with any queries or problems you may have. Interviews: We select students for places on the MA after carefully reviewing the 
application form, and then inviting for interview those that we feel 
would best fit the course demands.  Skype or email interviews are 
arranged for overseas students. The
interview, which lasts about 30 minutes, is relatively informal. You won't be
expected to give a presentation, or anything of that kind.  Letting
you know the outcome: We consider
applications as they are received, and make decisions about offers of places
accordingly until places are filled. Successful
candidates will be sent further information during the course of the summer,
and you should also watch the Departmental website. UCL offers different types of accommodation to suit
different students' requirements: there are halls of residence, student houses
and intercollegiate halls. Information about applying for accommodation is
available on the website of the UCL student residence office. Students are also
free to make their own accommodation arrangements, but are recommended to live
within easy travelling distance of UCL. If you are offered a place at DIS, it
will be important to arrange accommodation before you arrive in London.  Under UK government regulations, international students
are allowed to undertake a limited amount of paid employment to help meet the
costs of their studies, and students often take casual jobs at evenings or
weekends to provide a small supplement to their income. Full-time students
often undertake casual paid employment at evenings or weekends, but full-time
study cannot be combined with a part-time job.  International applicants that are offered a place at
UCL:DIS, should familiarize themselves with the information UCL provides to
help international
students with arriving, living and studying in London  The UK government has confirmed its commitment to student
loans for 2016/17. Full details will be made available on www.gov.uk from January 2016. Loan applications,
eligibility, queries and decisions will be dealt with directly by the
government, not by UCL. However, currently the expectation is that the following key
details to be included in the loan scheme:We have a number of scholarships available for offer 
holders for this coming year (Start date Sept 2015). Please note these 
are all only available to full time Home and EU students, and students 
can only apply to ONE scheme. Details of awards suitable for 
international students, and further opportunities for home and EU 
students, can be found on the UCL Scholarships and Funding pages. A UCL Wiley Scholarship has been established by the publishers John
Wiley and Sons Ltd to be awarded to an outstanding MA in Publishing
student at the UCL Centre for Publishing. The successful candidate will be selected through an interview 
process
by Wiley and UCL representatives. The UCL Wiley Scholarship will cover 
full tuition fees for the one year  course and an internship at Wiley in
 the UK.  To
Apply:For further information please contact:  
  Dr Samantha Rayner, Programme Director 
  Email: s.rayner@ucl.ac.uk
  Telephone +44 (0)20-7679-2473UCL Centre for Publishing, Department of Information Studies, University College London, Gower Street, London WC1E 6BT  Faber and Faber and UCL awards a scholarship in
memory of the late David Tebbutt, Finance Director of Faber and Faber
from 2002 until his untimely death in September 2011.  The UCL David Tebbutt
Scholarship is awarded annually to fully fund a place on the MA in Publishing programme, and is open to UK and EU applicants.  The scholarship is
funded by the David Tebbutt Trust, which is jointly administered by
Faber and Faber and the Tebbutt family. The principal aim of the
Trust is to further the education of those wishing to pursue a career
in the publishing, writing and information industries, and related
fields of activity. As well as funding a full year's fees, the
scholarship will also carry a guaranteed work placement with Faber
and Faber.  To
Apply:  Please contact Dr
Samantha Rayner for more details: s.rayner@ucl.ac.uk  Note:  Remember, only ONE of the 
scholarships can be applied for.  This is mainly because the companies 
involved are interested in supporting students genuinely committed to 
them and the sector of publishing they represent -not just people who 
are trying to get funding!  Scholarships are very competitive, and all 
offer holders should have alternative arrangements in place to cover 
funding should they be unsuccessful in the scholarship process. Application deadline has been extended to Thursday 30 April.Below and in the link pasted below are details on the UCL
Studentship web page of UCL’s Postgraduate Support Scheme. http://www.ucl.ac.uk/prospective-students/scholarships/graduate/UK-EU-Master/uclalumniandfriendsPlease note the highlighted bullet point below, as the
eligibility criteria may exclude you if you started your undergraduate degree
before September 2012 (see below).The Postgraduate
Support Scheme (PSS), at UCL, offers approximately 340 awards of £10,000 each
to prospective postgraduate taught students. The aim of the
scheme is to encourage students from under-represented groups to embark on a
postgraduate qualification and is funded jointly by the Higher Education
Funding Council for England (HEFCE) and UCL. This is a one-off
opportunity for those applying to study a postgraduate taught programme
starting in September 2015 only. To be eligible to apply for an award
candidates must meet all the eligibility criteria. The PSS is a discretionary
fund that is expected to generate high demand, so there is no guarantee of
funding upon application.Eligibility
criteriaTo be considered
for an award, candidates must:At UCL
priority will be given to students from the following groups: Value and
durationThese awards will
be offered in the form of tuition fee bursaries, with any balance paid as
maintenance funding. The aim of the course is to equip you with a clear understanding of how modern
      publishing works and to give you the knowledge, confidence and abilities
  to move quickly in building a successful publishing career. At the end of the programme you will be a professional 
publisher ready to launch your career with a qualification from a 
university that the industry recognises and values. UCL's MA in Publishing aims to help train leaders in 
the industry. We employ a rigorous applications process to ensure we 
recruit very best potential publishers, and professional behaviours is at
 the core fo everything we do. This is an intensive course, which 
provide access to the publishing industry throughout its duration; we 
work with each student to equip them with the best support for their 
professional development. As a result, our graduates are sought after 
recruits. Recent job successes have been in Bloomsbury Digital, Sage, 
Penguin and David Higham Associates.Programme Director:   Core Teaching staff include: 
  In addition, leading publishers, literary agents, authors, legal experts,
    booksellers and electronic authorities visit the course to give lectures
    and presentations.
  There are ‘master classes’ from industry leaders on current and
controversial issues and field visits to retailers, publishers and libraries. Admissions enquiries: Ian Evans  Tel: +44 (20)7679 7204 Email: ian.evans@ucl.ac.uk
				    Information Studies
				    
				 The MSc in Information Science is an ideal 
career development programme for librarians, archivists and other 
information professionals who wish to update their skills and experience
 in the use of information technology, the internet and digital media, 
or for those from a computer-oriented background who wish to specialise 
in information fields.The
programme includes both practical and theoretical work through which students
develop a deeper understanding of not just the technologies themselves but also
the implications of applying and managing these technologies in varied
information environments. The wide range of optional courses allow students to
tailor the programme to fit their individual career specialism and needs.The programme  prepares students for management roles in the information industries
with an emphasis on technology: for example information systems manager,
systems librarian, web manager, information architect, knowledge manager, data
manager, or indeed any information management role. Our graduates find work all
over the world with electronic systems for managing, retrieving, distributing
and archiving vast quantities of information.Our students come from a
very wide range of backgrounds, and a typical student is very hard to define.
Many are already working in libraries, records centres, archives or other
information units, and wish to deepen their knowledge of technical issues,
undertake professional development, or gain a formal qualification to enhance
their career prospects. Others increasingly come from a more computing-oriented
background and want to specialise in the information fields and develop their
information and management skills. Others may already be experts in niche areas
but are looking to gain a broader range of expertise.As a result we have a
very diverse student body, with ages ranging from the early 20s to mid 50s and
a good mixture of UK, EU and overseas students. One of the tenets of the
programme is that students should learn from each other as well as from the
faculty, and benefit greatly from sharing their ideas and experience with each
other.The programme is suitable
for:Reputation: UCL Information Studies combines the best of 
traditional library and archive studies with the latest developments in 
internet technologies and electronic communication and publishing.Research: It brings together an outstanding team of researchers, 
teachers, students, practitioners and information industry leaders to 
help you understand, develop and shape the emerging information 
environment while elucidating and building on the historical 
developments that have created this environment.Location: Students benefit from UCL's central London location, 
close to many major libraries and repositories and information centres, 
including the British Library and many specialist collections, giving 
ready access to an underpassed range of materials. MSc/Dip students must
take the following core modules:Systems
ManagementInternet
TechnologiesDatabase
Systems Analysis and DesignIntroduction
to Programming and ScriptingFundamentals of Information ScienceStudents select three
optional modules. Common choices include: Server
Technologies and Programming DataXMLDigital
Resources in the HumanitiesLegal
and Social Aspects of Electronic PublishingManaging Information OrganisationsElectronic
PublishingEncoded
Archival Description and Digitisation of ArchivesIndividual
Approved StudyIntroduction
to DigitisationInformation GovernanceKnowledge
Representation and Semantic Technologies Introduction to Digital CurationThis list is indicative only. In principle any DIS module may be taken if appropriate.  All MSc students undertake an independent research 
project on a specific aspect of information technology and its 
application, which culminates in a dissertation of 10,000-12,000 words. For more information, view the 'Features' tab. The programme is delivered through a combination of 
lectures, tutorials, seminars, computer laboratory practicals and classroom 
practicals, with a strong emphasis on informal teaching and the 
acquisition of practical skills. Assessment is through a mixture of 
essays, reports, examination, peer assessment and practical projects such as website 
design and data modeling.In addition, MSc students
will undertake their own research, guided by an expert tutor, into a specific
aspect of information technology and its application, which culminates in a
dissertation of 12,000-15,000 words. This dissertation will
form an integral part of the learning experience as well as making a major
contribution to the collective research effort of DIS. The best dissertations
may form the basis for a publication in a scholarly journal or a presentation
at an academic conference. Students with connections to a sponsoring
organisation (particularly modular students on day release) often undertake
projects of direct relevance and benefit to their sponsoring organisation or
place of work.A Postgraduate Certificate (60 credits, full-time 15 weeks 
or flexible study over a period of up to two years) is offered. The PG 
Certificate comprises four taught modules selected by the student in 
consultation with the Programme Director, and is a shorter programme of 
study, which is not accredited by CILIP 
and not recognised as a full professional qualification. It is designed 
for those who wish to gain some basic knowledge of information science, but are not (currently) intending to take it up as a 
professional career.Depending on the modules chosen, the Certificate may be 
completed in approximately a half year of full-time study (late 
September-late January or early January-early June), or may be taken 
more gradually over nine months (late September-early June).  Applicants to the PG Cert apply in the normal way: you may 
choose to apply online or download application materials; for details 
visit www.ucl.ac.uk/gradappsIn term time, mostly classes are held in the morning (10:00-1:00) or afternoon 
(2:00-5:00). In addition, time should be allowed for private study and 
for completion of coursework. Classes are normally held on UCL's main 
site in Gower Street, London WC1; field visits and practical sessions 
may involve travel to other central London locations.Full-time
 study for the MSc requires a calendar year (September-September), with 
the summer months being occupied by work on the MSc dissertation.Modular/flexible study (attending one or two days per week) is available for the MSc/PG Dip/PG Cert in Information Science. Modular students' attendance
will depend on which modules are selected per year/term and are agreed on an annual basis. Modular students registered for the MSc and the PG Diploma can complete their studies flexibly over a period of 2-5 years; students registered for the PG Certificate can complete over a period of 15 weeks min to 2 years max.The timetable provided serves only as a guide. Final timetables are made available at enrolment.Download a sample timetable.Academic: The programme requires a minimum of a second-class Bachelor's degree 
from a UK university or an overseas qualification of an equivalent 
standard. An appropriate professional qualification is preferred. 
Applicants with  relevant experience in an information or computing 
discipline may also be considered.English language proficiency: The English Language Proficiency Requirement for all non-native English speakers is a minimum of an IELTS 7.0 with no less than 6.5 in each sub-set.APL may be considered for advanced entry to a
 UCL taught programme where a student has already 
completed certified learning of a UCL
 programme e.g. a student who has completed a UCL PG Diploma and wishes to 
enrol on a UCL Masters. Please view details about UCL's Accredited Prior Learning Scheme. Students are advised to apply as early as possible due 
to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding 
(particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application 
deadlines. Deadlines: Applications for the Diploma or MSc programmes must
 be submitted by 1 July in the year of entry, although late 
applications will be considered up to UCL's general application deadline
 in early August. Selected candidates will be invited to an informal interview, 
usually held between March and July.Required documentation: Applicants should
provide two references, of which at least one should be an academic reference.  A transcript of results
from your previous academic institution should also be included. It is usually
possible to obtain confirmation of your results, even if you graduated some
years ago.
 

Online applications will not usually be processed until they are complete i.e.
the necessary documents are all uploaded.
 
  The programme is particularly suitable for those who 
wish to develop their computer-related management skills with a view to 
improving their employment opportunities in all areas of information 
management, library, records and archives work.  It will also appeal to 
students interested in applying and managing technology effectively 
within any information environment. When we assess your application we would like to learn:Processing
applications: Your
application will initially be dealt with by the UCL Registry, and then assigned to the Department where it will be checked. You will be told that your application has been received, and is being processed. At this stage you may be asked to
provide further information, or to clarify any ambiguities; this doesn't mean
that there is a problem with the application.Contact with
applicants is usually via email, so be sure that your account details are
current and correct, and that you check the account regularly. Please feel free
to email us with any queries or problems you may have.Interviews: Selected candidates will be invited for an informal interview, either in person or
via Skype, which lasts about 30 minutes. You won't be
expected to give a presentation, or anything of that kind. Letting
you know the outcome: We consider
applications as they are received, and make decisions about offers of places
accordingly until places are filled.Successful
candidates will be sent further information during the course of the summer,
and you should also watch the Departmental website.UCL offers different types of accommodation to suit
different students' requirements: there are halls of residence, student houses
and intercollegiate halls. Information about applying for accommodation is
available on the website of the UCL student residence office. Students are also
free to make their own accommodation arrangements, but are recommended to live
within easy travelling distance of UCL. If you are offered a place at DIS, it
will be important to arrange accommodation before you arrive in London. Under UK government regulations, international students
are allowed to undertake a limited amount of paid employment to help meet the
costs of their studies, and students often take casual jobs at evenings or
weekends to provide a small supplement to their income. Full-time students
often undertake casual paid employment at evenings or weekends, but full-time
study cannot be combined with a part-time job. International applicants that are offered a place at
UCL:DIS, should familiarize themselves with the information UCL provides to
help international
students with arriving, living and studying in London.UCL:DIS have a small number of scholarships (details on the Funding Options for Graduate Students webpages) but these are likely only to be awarded to students of exceptional academic ability.Most students are
self-financing, relying on savings or career development loans. Part-time work
(in libraries and elsewhere) is fairly readily available in London, and most
full-time students can find something that fits in with the course.The UK government has confirmed its commitment to student
loans for 2016/17. Full details will be made available on www.gov.uk from January 2016. Loan applications,
eligibility, queries and decisions will be dealt with directly by the
government, not by UCL. However, currently the expectation is that the following key
details to be included in the loan scheme: The MSc in Information Science prepares students for 
management roles in the information industries with an emphasis on 
technology: for example; information systems manager, systems librarian,
 web manager, information architect, knowledge manager, data manager, or
 indeed any information management role. Our graduates find work all 
over the world with electronic systems for managing, retrieving, 
distributing and archiving vast quantities of information. The programme
 is recognised and accredited by CILIP, the Chartered Institute of 
Library and Information Professionals, for professional qualifications 
purposes. This programme challenges students to think more 
deeply about the implications of using information technology of all 
kinds in the workplace, and to consider better ways of designing, 
specifying, implementing and managing systems in order to promote 
organisational success. Understanding these issues and having the skills
 to develop and manage practical solutions equips our students to 
succeed individually and to help their organisations succeed. Our 
students achieve a high employability rate on graduating, and rise in 
organisations as their skills are recognised. Many past students now 
occupy senior positions in the information world in government, 
commerce, industry and academia.Programme Director:  Core Teaching staff include: 
 A variety of other teaching staff from
across the profession will also teach on the programme, depending on modules
chosen, and the proposed dissertation topic.  Admissions enquiries:Sarah DavenportTel: +44 (20)7679 7204Email: s.davenport@ucl.ac.uk
				    Information Studies
				    
				 We largely teach at the postgraduate level and offer probably the widest range of information disciplines in the country. Covering
 the fields of Librarianship, Information Science, Archives, Records 
Management, Digital Humanities and Publishing, we not only offer a wide 
range of fields and provide wide professional choice but also, via 
options etc, the important context in which to study the individual 
information discipline of your choice. Postgraduate teaching at DIS is delivered through a range of taught programmes:Please
 note that we DO NOT accept applications from agencies on any of our 
programmes and we will not communicate with an agent regarding your 
application. We expect all applicants to complete their applications 
themselves.Programme content is organized into
 modules, each of these consisting of 30 contact hours, and completed in
 a single term. Each programme consists of a set of compulsory modules, 
plus options. The modular structure allows you to study on a part-time, 
or modular, basis, part-time students usually taking two modules per 
term, as opposed to the full-time four modules per term. A number of 
modules are available on more than one programme, and in these cases, 
students from the different programmes may be taught together.A
 wide range of teaching and learning methods are employed, including 
formal lectures, seminars, small group work, computer lab practicals and
 classroom practicals. Overall there is a strong emphasis on informal 
teaching and the acquisition of practical skills. Assessment styles 
mirror this diversity with a mixture of essays, reports, and practical 
assignments such as website design and the creation of indexing tools.The
 Department is fortunate to have a number of visiting lecturers and 
speakers who provide contact with the wider worlds of research and 
professional practice. We are also able to exploit the rich collections 
to be found in the surrounding area, some of which are used directly in 
teaching and learning.
				    Information Studies
				    
				
				    Information Studies
				    
				 This information is useful for all undergraduate students taking DIS
modules (modules which have a code starting with INST)We hope that you will enjoy studying with us. Please contact the DIS Undregraduate Officer (nicola.alexander@ucl.ac.uk) if you have any queries.Your first point of contact for all queries relating to
DIS modules is the DIS Undergraduate Officer, Nicola Alexander (nicola.alexander@ucl.ac.uk) – please do NOT email the
module tutor.Please use the Moodle discussion forums for any queries
relating to course content and teaching (see Moodle section below).[back to contents]UCL email is the normal means of communication between staff and students.
You should familiarize yourself with its use and check your UCL mailbox
regularly. Your email address is your-userid@ucl.ac.uk. You will
also be allocated an alias (more like your real name). DIS will send all emails to your UCL address. If
you wish, you can arrange to have email forwarded automatically to a different
address, but Information Systems do not recommend this. It is your
responsibility to ensure that you receive emails sent to your UCL
address. Keeping in touch is a two-way process: we will endeavour to answer your
emails as quickly as we can, but at certain times of the year (e.g. start of
the academic year, exams period), the volume of emails we receive will be very
high and it may take a little longer. Occasionally, we will have to contact you – usually because there is an
urgent query regarding coursework submission or some other emergency – and we
would appreciate it if you could reply as soon as possible.  Please
don’t hesitate to get in touch if you have any questions or are unsure about
what you need to do – don’t leave it too late! [back to contents]It is compulsory to attend all taught sessions (lectures, seminars,
practical sessions). Attendance will be monitored.It is very important that you attend lectures and computer practicals – all
the DIS courses are technical ones and it is important that you practise in the
practical sessions the new material covered in that week’s lecture.If you are unable to attend due to
illness etc. – please email the DIS Undergraduate Officer (nicola.alexander@ucl.ac.uk) as soon as possible – preferably before the lecture/practical to let her
know that you are unable to attend and give the reason. [back to contents]Your attention is drawn to the UCL policy on plagiarism. DIS applies the UCL policy very strictly and the
consequences for students can be extremely serious. [back to contents]Moodle is the UCL Virtual Learning Environment (VLE). Each
undergraduate DIS course has two Moodle pages: The module information page
contains useful information about the module (e.g. place, dates and times of
the taught sessions), learning resources (e.g. lectures notes and exercises)
and a discussion forum through which students can interact with each other and
with the module tutor. Please use the discussion forums to post any queries relating to course content
and teaching. Students are expected to visit the course information page on a
regular basis during the term that the module is taught. The coursework submission page
is used to upload your coursework and you will receive your provisional mark
and feedback via that page.[back to contents]You must submit by the
specified deadline – there are penalties for late submission (see below).
Please check the coursework instructions carefully and submit your coursework
in the specified file format. Dates for submission of coursework are
included with the coursework instructions themselves. These deadlines will be
applied rigidly.Please contact your Home Department for information on how to apply for a coursework extension. Please check the Academic manual for details of the penalties that will be applied if you submit your coursework late.Please check the coursework instructions carefully - if word length is specified then the relevant penalties will be applied if you exceed this. Full details in the Academic Manual.DIS will not include bibliographies,
references, tables, pictures or graphs as part of the upper word limit for
coursework submissions, unless this has been explicitly stated in the
coursework submission instructions.Feedback and provisional marks are made
available to students via Moodle. You will be sent an email when these are
available to view.It is DIS departmental policy for all
coursework to include an explicit deadline by which it will be marked and
feedback given to students. UCL aspires for the norm for return of coursework
to be approximately four weeks after the submission deadline. But the length of
period between particular submission and return deadlines may vary from this to
a degree because of such factors as the complexity of the assignment, the depth
of feedback required, the number of students taking the module, whether or not
students have already received feedback for other assignments within the
module, and the proximity to other known departmental, UCL and professional
deadlines.[back to contents]
Part of the feedback on a piece of assessed coursework will generally be a
provisional mark. 40% or more is a pass in any piece of coursework, and below
40% is a fail. This page attempts to summarise in very general terms the “usual
meaning” of each mark when the course concerned is taught by DIS. However,
obviously not all the criteria mentioned are applicable to every piece of
coursework. If you need further clarification on what you need to do to obtain
a particular mark for a particular piece of coursework, or why you have been
awarded a particular mark, you should seek advice from the particular lecturer
concerned.  70% OR ABOVE — Work of this standard across a
whole degree programme would result in the award of a 1st class degree.
An excellent piece of work, showing a very high degree of mastery of the
subject matter, with a highly developed and mature ability to analyse,
synthesise and/or apply knowledge, concepts and/or techniques. All objectives
of the set work are covered, and work is free of all but very minor errors with
a high level of technical competence. Where appropriate, there is evidence of
critical reflection, and of ability to tackle questions and issues not
previously encountered. Ideas are expressed clearly.  60% - 69% — Work of this standard across a
whole degree programme would result in the award of a 2-1 class degree.
A good piece of work, showing a sound and thorough grasp of the subject matter,
though possibly lacking in the breath and depth required for an A grade. Where
appropriate, there is a good attempt at analysis, synthesis and application of
knowledge and concepts, but this may be more limited in scope than that
required for an A grade. Most objectives of the work set are covered. Work is
generally technically competent, but there may be a few gaps leading to some
errors. Where appropriate, there is some evidence of critical reflection, and
the ability to make a reasonable attempt at tackling questions and issues not
previously encountered. Ideas are expressed with clarity, with some minor
exceptions.  50% - 59% — Work of this standard across a
whole degree programme would result in the award of a 2-2 class degree.
A fair piece of work, showing a grasp of major elements of the subject matter
but possibly with some gaps or areas of confusion. Only the basic requirements
of the work set are covered. The attempt at analysis, synthesis and application
of knowledge is superficial, with a heavy reliance on course materials. Work
may contain some errors, and technical competence is at a routine level only.
Evidence of ability to tackle questions not previously encountered is limited.
There is little critical reflection. Some confusion and immaturity in expression
of ideas.  40% - 49% — Work of this standard across a
whole degree programme would result in the award of a 3rd class degree.
A poor piece of work, showing some familiarity with the subject matter, but
with major gaps and serious misconceptions. Only some of the basic requirements
of the work set are achieved. There is little or no attempt at appropriate
analysis, synthesis or application of knowledge, and a low level of technical
competence, with many errors. There is apparent difficulty in beginning to
address questions and issues not previously encountered. There is no evidence
of ability to reflect critically on an argument or viewpoint. Ideas are poorly
expressed and structured.  39% OR BELOW — Work of this standard across a
whole degree programme would not result in the award of a degree.
The student has failed to engage seriously with the subject matter. The student
has found it impossible to address questions not previously encountered. The
level of understanding, expression and structure is very inadequate.[back to contents]
				    Information Studies
				    
				The aims of this module are to introduce students to some of the basic concepts of imperative and object-oriented computer programming, and to develop programming skills and related problem-solving skills using a subset of the Java programming language.Learning outcomes: On successful completion of this module students will be able to design, write, debug and test short (i.e. 1 to 2 page) Java programs and program modules containing a combination of some or all the following features:In addition, students will be able to understand, modify and extend longer (10 - 20 page) Java programs containing the above asortment of features.Assessment: Assessment is by a series of programming exercisesCompulsory for: BSc Information Management for BusinessOptional for: Arts and Sciences BASc (Science and Engineering Pathway)Prerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this module, but students should be mathematically competentTaught by: Karen StepanyanFurther information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				This module provides an introduction to information systems for 1st year students on the BSc Information Management for Business degree. Students from other years taking this module as an ancillary option will be accepted, as appropriate.Information systems are an integral part of any modern organisation and, increasingly, computer systems are used to support every aspect of an organisation's functions and activities. Whilst innovative use of technologies can provide significant benefits, information systems will only deliver value where they are deployed to meet the goals of the organisation. The emphasis of the module is on methods for analysing, specifying and designing information systems within a framework which takes a holistic approach to the introduction of change and in which user requirements are considered fundamental.The aims of this course are to:Learning outcomes: Students will understand the notion of abstraction and other methods for understanding and representing aspects of existing and proposed systems. Students will know how to apply methods and construct models relevant to the development of information systems.Assessment: Assessment by coursework (40%) and unseen examination (60%)Compulsory for: BSc Information Management for BusinessOptional for: BSc Information Management for BusinessPrerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this moduleTaught by: Oliver Duke-WilliamsFurther information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				This module is a direct continuation of INST1002 Programming 1. Programming 1 introduced some of the basic concepts of imperative and object-oriented computer programming, and developed programming skills and related problem-solving skills using a subset of the Java programming language. The Programming 2 module expands this subset and uses it to introduce the more complex concepts required to perform more detailed (and more interesting!) programming tasks using the Java language.Learning outcomes: On successful completion of this module students will be able to design, write, debug and test medium size (i.e. 3 to 4 page) Java programs, primarily for the creation and implementation of Graphical User Interface (GUI) and File I/O routines, containing a combination of some or all the following features:Assessment: Assessment is by coursework (a practical programming exercise or series of exercises) and an unseen examinationCompulsory for: BSc Information Management for BusinessOptional for: Arts and Sciences BASc (Sciences and Engineering Pathway)Prerequisites: INST1002: Programming 1Taught by: Kosmas KosmopoulosFurther information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				The purpose of this module is to provide an overview of the theory andpractice of database systems: data and database analysis, design, useand management, with particular emphasis on relational systems.Inter alia the module will cover: data investigation, representation andorganisation; metadata; conceptual modelling; entity-relationshipmodelling; normalization of data; relational databases and relationalalgebra; query languages; SQL; database implementation; databasemanagement systems; database administration; security and performanceissues; data on the web and related issues.Learning outcomes: By the end of the module, students will beable to analyse, specify, design and implement a data management system.They will have a thorough grasp of the theory and practice ofrelational database systems, and how this relates to the general needsof an organisationAssessment: Assessment is by coursework (20%) and an unseen written examination (80%)Compulsory for: BSc Information Management for BusinessOptional for: Arts and Sciences BASc (Sciences and Engineering Pathway)Prerequisites: Year 1 of the BSc Information Management or BSc Information Management for Business programmesTaught by: Kosmas-Othon KosmopoulosFurther information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				 The Semantic Web was proposed as an evolution of the current Web aiming to establish meaning to web
data, so that it can be shared, reasoned with and re-used by both humans and
machines. The aim of the module is to make the students familiar with the basic
ideas of Semantic Web and its main technologies. It describes briefly the
theoretical background of these technologies, but gives more emphasis on
practical aspects, such as ontology engineering and Semantic Web applications. Learning outcomes: Students will understand
the underlying ideas of Semantic Web and its layered architecture, and will
become familiar with its main technologies including ontology, ontology
languages and query languages. They will also learn how to apply such
technologies to develop knowledge-based models for business domains and applications.Assessment: Assessment by coursework (50%) and examination (50%)Optional for: the module is an
option for second year BSc / MSCi IMB students, but students from other departments are
eligible to register if places area available.Prerequisites: for IMB students: Programming 2, Web Technologies, Users and Management; for students from other
departments: knowledge of HTML and any programming
language is required.Taught by: Antonis BikakisFurther information for students currently taking this module.
				    Information Studies
				    
				This 1st year core course covers both the technical aspects of website construction and maintenance, and the related topics of good design and ongoing management of web-based information systems, user behaviour and digital business issues, for both an organisation’s internal (intranet) and external (internet/extranet) purposes. It aims to develop an appreciation of web-related technologies and user behaviour in such environments and of best practice in the creation, organisation and maintenance of such sites for both internal and external organisational purposes.Learning outcomes: On completing the course students should understand the basic principles of website operation, be familiar with XHTML and related tools and markup languages for website construction, recognise the importance of structure and design for purpose, understand user behaviour and business issues in the web environment, and be aware of the management implications and needs such sites give rise to and how to deal with them effectively.Assessment: Assessment by coursework (50%) and examination (50%)Compulsory for: BSc Information Management for BusinessOptional for: None. This module is also available for short course studentsPrerequisites: There are no formal prerequisites for this moduleTaught by: Karen StepanyanFurther information for students currently taking this module
				    Information Studies
				    
				Although the Department of Information Studies is primarily a postgraduate school, we do offer a selection of modules on information and computing related topics at undergraduate level. The undergraduate modules presently offered by DIS are:In particular, these modules are core components of the BSc / MSci Information Management for Business (IMB), taught jointly by the UCL School of Management, DIS and the Department of Computer Science. The UCL School of Management is the home department for this degree, which is sponsored by the government agency e-skills UK, and as such enjoys the benefits of full collaboration with top industrial sponsors. They are also offerred as optional modules of the Sciences and Engineering Pathway of the Arts and Sciences BASc, an interdisciplinary three-years programme that combines subjects from Arts, Humanities, Social Sciences and Engineering.
				    Information Studies
				    
				This module provides an introduction to the issues, techniques, 
technologies and underlying principles associated with creating and 
maintaining Web servers and database-driven websites. The course will describe different approaches to extending
the functionality of ‘plain’ web sites by using structured data to build
database driven websites. Using spatial (geographic) data as an example application
area, the students will learn how to develop web sites that can interact with a
spatially enabled database to retrieve and display results, and how they can
add map based interactive elements to a web page. The students will be introduced to the types
of data visualization and analyses that are possible using web-based spatial
data.Learning outcomes: On successful completion of the course, students will: (1) understand
server-side and clients-side approaches to extending web functionality; (2) be able
to write programs in PHP; (3) be
familiar with different types of spatial data; (4) be able
to carry out spatial queries in an SQL database and (5) be able
to embed interactive maps within a web page.Students will also have an understanding of server-based tasks such as maintaining security and correct Web access to different user groups.Time and date: The course runs on Mondays in term 2, and each week consists of a lecture 14:00-15:00, followed by a practical class 15:00-17:00Assessment: Assessment is by an extended practical projectOptional for: MSc Information Science. This module is also available for short course studentsPrerequisites: INSTG018 Introduction to Programming and Scripting. Students who have not taken INSTG018 but who feel that they may have equivalent experience in basic programming and HTML coding should discuss this with the lecturer before to applying to take the moduleTaught by: Oliver Duke-Williams, Antonis BikakisFurther information for prospective studentsFurther information for students currently taking this module
                                      URL:
                                      https://www.ucl.ac.uk/dis/taught/pg/TMAARMSING01B
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        
                                      URL:
                                      https://www.ucl.ac.uk/dis/taught/pg/tmsinfssci01
                                      
                                    
                                        This error (HTTP 404 Not Found) means that you have connected to the UCL Website, but the page you wanted was not found. It's possible that the webpage is temporarily unavailable. Alternatively, the UCL Website might have changed or removed the webpage. 
                                    © UCL 1999–
                        <!--
                        var d = new Date();
                        var curr_year = d.getFullYear();
                        document.write(curr_year);
                        -->
                        Your browser sent a request that this server could not understand.
Your browser sent a request that this server could not understand.
Your browser sent a request that this server could not understand.
